{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background The Company designs, manufactures, and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company\x92 products and services include iPhone ® , iPad ® , Mac ® , iPod ® , Apple ® , portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the iOS and ® operating systems, iCloud ® , and variety accessory, service and support offerings. The Company also sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store ® , App Store\x99, iBooks Store\x99, and Mac App Store. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod compatible products, including application software, and various accessories, through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumers; small and mid-sized businesses (\x93SMB\x94); and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company\x92 fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented this Form - based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. The Company California corporation established . Business Strategy The Company committed bringing the best user experience its customers through its innovative hardware, software and services. The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its unique ability design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software, and services provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative design. The Company believes continual investment research and development, marketing and advertising critical the development and sale innovative products and technologies. part its strategy, the Company continues expand its platform for the discovery and delivery third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. part the iTunes Store, the Company\x92 App Store and iBooks Store allow customers discover and download applications and books through either Mac Windows-based computer through \x93iOS devices,\x94 namely iPhone, iPad and iPod touch ® . The Company\x92 Mac App Store allows customers easily discover, download and install Mac applications. The Company also supports community for the development third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Company\x92 offerings. The Company believes high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the Company\x92 products and services greatly enhances its ability attract and retain customers. Therefore, the Company\x92 strategy also includes enhancing and expanding its own retail and online stores and its third-party distribution network effectively reach more customers and provide them with high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. Accordingly, the Company determined its reportable operating segments, which are generally based the nature and location its customers, the Americas, Europe, Japan, Greater China, Rest Asia Pacific and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. The Greater China segment includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Rest Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian countries, other than those countries included the Company\x92 other operating segments. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores countries, including the . Each operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. The results the Company\x92 geographic segments not include results the Retail segment. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading \x93Segment Operating Performance,\x94 and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Products iPhone iPhone the Company\x92 line smartphones that combines phone, music player, and internet device one product, and based Apple\x92 iOS Multi-Touch\x99 operating system. iPhone has integrated photo and video camera and photo library app, and qualifying devices, also includes Siri ® , voice activated intelligent assistant. iPhone works with the iTunes Store, the App Store and iBooks Store for purchasing, organizing and playing music, movies, shows, podcasts, books, and apps. addition apps delivered with iOS, beginning September , free downloads iPhoto ® , iMovie ® and iWork ® apps for iOS became available with all new iPhones. iPhone compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple\x92 iCloud services which provide synchronization mail, contacts, calendars, apps, music, photos, documents, and more across users\x92 devices. The latest versions, introduced September , are iPhone and iPhone . iPad iPad and iPad mini\x99 are the Company\x92 line multi-purpose tablets based Apple\x92 iOS Multi-Touch operating system. iPad has integrated photo and video camera and photo library app, and qualifying devices, also includes Siri. iPad works with the iTunes Store, the iBooks Store, and the App Store for purchasing and playing music, movies, shows, podcasts, books, and apps. addition apps delivered with iOS for qualifying devices, beginning September , iPhoto, iMovie and iWork apps for iOS became available free downloads with all new iPads. iPad compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple\x92 iCloud services. October , the Company announced iPad Air\x99, its fifth generation iPad, and iPad mini with Retina ® display. Mac Mac the Company\x92 line desktop and portable personal computers. Macs feature Intel microprocessors, the operating system and include Mail, Safari web browser, Messages, Calendars, Reminders, Contacts and the iLife ® suite software apps. The Company\x92 desktop computers include iMac ® , Mac Pro ® and Mac mini. The Company\x92 portable computers include MacBook Pro ® and MacBook Air ® . Beginning October , the Company\x92 iWork productivity suite apps for became available free downloads with all new Macs. iPod The Company\x92 iPod line portable digital music and media players includes iPod touch, iPod nano ® , iPod shuffle ® and iPod classic ® . All iPods work with iTunes purchase and synchronize content. iPod touch, based the Company\x92 iOS Multi-Touch operating system, flash-memory-based iPod with integrated photo and video camera and photo library app, and also includes Siri. iPod touch works with the iTunes Store, the App Store, and the iBooks Store for purchasing and playing music, movies, shows, podcasts, books, and apps. addition apps delivered with iOS, beginning September , iPhoto, iMovie and iWork apps for iOS became available free downloads for all new iPod touches. iPod touch compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple\x92 iCloud services. iTunes and the iTunes Store Apple\x92 iTunes app, available for both Mac and Windows personal computers, keeps users\x92 music, movies, and shows organized one place. iTunes integrated with the iTunes Store, the App Store and the iBooks Store. The iTunes Store allows users purchase and download music and shows and rent purchase movies. The iTunes Store also includes hundreds thousands free Podcasts multitude subjects. The App Store allows customers discover and download apps and purchase -app content. The iBooks Store features -books from major and independent publishers. iTunes ® allows users download free lectures, videos, and more from top universities, museums, and other institutions. iTunes also features Genius mixes find songs that together and organize them into genre-based mixes and Home Sharing allow users stream content from one computer another computer well iOS devices and newer versions the Company\x92 Apple . September , Apple introduced iTunes Radio\x99, free Internet streaming service that allows users iOS devices, Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple personalize radio stations featuring music from the iTunes Store. Mac App Store The Mac App Store allows customers discover, download and install Mac apps. The Mac App Store offers applications education, games, graphics and design, lifestyle, productivity, utilities and other categories. The Company\x92 operating system software and its iLife, iWork and other application software titles are also available the Mac App Store. iCloud iCloud the Company\x92 cloud service, which stores music, photos, applications, contacts, calendars, documents and more, keeping them - -date and available multiple iOS devices and Mac and Windows personal computers. iCloud\x92 features include iTunes the Cloud; Photo Stream; Documents the Cloud; Contacts; Calendar; Mail; automatic downloads and purchase history for content, applications and books; and iCloud Backup for iOS devices. Users can sign for free access iCloud using device running qualifying versions iOS . Operating System Software iOS iOS the Company\x92 Multi-Touch operating system that serves the foundation for iOS devices. iOS the current version and was released September . Apps delivered with iOS for qualifying devices include Safari web browser, FaceTime video calling, Maps with turn- -turn directions, Mail, Contacts, Calendar, Clock, Weather, Calculator, Notes, Reminders, Stocks, Compass, and Messages. Devices running iOS are compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple\x92 iCloud services. , the Company\x92 Mac operating system, built open-source UNIX-based foundation and provides intuitive and integrated computer experience. Mavericks, released October , the tenth major release . Support for iCloud built into users can access content and information from their other Macs, their iOS devices and other supported devices and access downloaded content and apps from the iTunes Store. addition Mail, Safari web browser, Messages, Calendars, Reminders, Contacts and the iLife ® suite software apps, Mavericks also includes new Maps app and new iBooks app that both work with their iOS counterparts. Application Software iLife iLife for Mac the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital lifestyle software application suite included with all Mac computers. iLife features iPhoto, digital photo application for storing, viewing, editing and sharing photos; iMovie, digital video editing application; and GarageBand ® , music creation application that allows customers play, record and create music. The Company also has Multi-Touch versions these iLife applications designed specifically for use iPhone and iPad, and beginning September , both iPhoto and iMovie for iOS became available free downloads with all new iOS devices. iWork iWork for Mac the Company\x92 integrated productivity suite designed help users create, present, and publish documents, presentations, and spreadsheets. iWork includes Pages ® for word processing and page layout, Keynote ® for presentations, and Numbers ® for spreadsheets. Beginning October , the iWork suite apps for will available free downloads with all new Macs. The Company also has iOS Multi-Touch versions each iWork application designed specifically for use iOS devices and, beginning September , they all became available free downloads with all new iOS devices. Other Application Software The Company also sells various other application software, including its professional line applications, Final Cut Pro ® , Logic ® Pro , and its FileMaker ® Pro database software. Displays & Peripheral Products The Company manufactures the Apple LED Cinema Display\x99 and Thunderbolt Display. The Company also sells variety Apple-branded and third-party Mac-compatible and iOS-compatible peripheral products, including printers, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, pointing devices, and various other computing products and supplies. Apple Apple connects consumers\x92 high definition TVs and enables them access iTunes content directly for streaming video, playing music and viewing photos. Content from Netflix, YouTube, Flickr, MLB, Hulu Plus, iTunes Radio and other media services also available. Apple allows streaming iTunes content from Macs and Windows personal computers through Home Share and through AirPlay ® from compatible Mac and iOS devices. Compatible Mac and iOS devices can also mirror their device screens well stream and play games Apple . iOS and Mac Developer Programs The Company\x92 iOS and Mac Developer Programs support app developers with the development, testing and distribution iOS and Mac apps through the App Store and the Mac App Store. Development tools included with the Company\x92 Developer Programs include Xcode ® , the Company\x92 integrated development environment for creating apps for iOS devices, including iPhone and iPad, and Mac. Xcode includes project management tools; analysis tools collect, display and compare app performance data; simulation tools locally run, test, and debug apps; tools simplify the design and development user interfaces; and the latest software development kits for iOS and . The Company\x92 Developer Programs also provide access multiple development resources including the Company\x92 Developer Forums, extensive technical documentation, and sample code. The Company\x92 Developer Programs also provide developers with access tools and information for submitting their apps the App Store and the Mac App Store. Product Support and Services AppleCare ® offers range support options for the Company\x92 customers. These include assistance that built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, the AppleCare Protection Plan (\x93APP\x94) and the AppleCare+ Protection Plan (\x93 +\x94). APP fee-based service that typically includes two three years phone support, hardware repairs and dedicated web-based support resources. + fee-based service available certain countries for iPhone and iPad. + offers additional coverage under some circumstances for instances accidental damage addition the services offered APP. Markets and Distribution The Company\x92 customers are primarily the consumer, SMB, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly consumers and SMBs through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs variety indirect distribution channels, such third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. During , the Company\x92 net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for % and %, respectively, total net sales. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware and software integration, and demonstrate the unique solutions that are available its products. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers effective way demonstrate the advantages its products over those its competitors and providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting new and retaining existing customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues expand and improve its distribution capabilities expanding the number its own retail stores worldwide. The Company\x92 retail stores are typically located high-traffic locations quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. operating its own stores and locating them desirable high-traffic locations the Company better positioned ensure high quality customer buying experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing the Company\x92 products and related solutions. The retail stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice, service and training and offer wide selection third-party hardware, software, and other accessories and peripherals that complement the Company\x92 products. The Company has also invested programs enhance reseller sales placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus the Apple platform providing high level product expertise, integration and support services. The Company committed delivering solutions help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement and has designed range products, services and programs address the needs education customers. The Company also supports mobile learning and real-time distribution , and access , education related materials through iTunes ® , platform that allows students and teachers share and distribute educational media online. The Company sells its products the education market through its direct sales force, select third-party resellers and its online and retail stores. The Company also sells its hardware and software products enterprise and government customers each its geographic segments. The Company\x92 products are deployed these markets because their performance, productivity, ease use and seamless integration into information technology environments. The Company\x92 products are compatible with thousands third-party business applications and services, and its tools enable the development and secure deployment custom applications well remote device administration. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , . Competition The markets for the Company\x92 products and services are highly competitive and the Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. These markets are characterized frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances that have substantially increased the capabilities and use mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and other digital electronic devices. The Company\x92 competitors who sell mobile devices and personal computers based other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins gain maintain market share. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results can adversely affected these and other industry-wide downward pressures gross margins. Principal competitive factors important the Company include price, product features, relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, strong third-party software and peripherals ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. The Company focused expanding its market opportunities related personal computers and mobile communication and media devices. These markets are highly competitive and include many large, well-funded and experienced participants. The Company expects competition these markets intensify significantly competitors attempt imitate some the features the Company\x92 products and applications within their own products , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. These markets are characterized aggressive pricing practices, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. The Company\x92 digital content services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer- -peer music and video services. The Company\x92 future financial condition and operating results depend the Company\x92 ability continue develop and offer new innovative products and services each the markets which competes. The Company believes offers superior innovation and integration the entire solution including the hardware (iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod), software (iOS, and iTunes), online services, and distribution digital content and applications (iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store and Mac App Store). Some the Company\x92 current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may able provide such products and services little profit even loss compete with the Company\x92 offerings. Supply Components Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, number components are currently obtained from single limited sources. addition, the Company competes for various components with other participants the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant pricing fluctuations that can materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company\x92 supply components for new existing product were delayed constrained, outsourcing partner delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also materially adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers concentrated the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. The Company has entered into various agreements for the supply components; however, there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. While the Company has announced plans begin manufacturing some Macs the United States, substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products are currently manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia. significant concentration this manufacturing currently performed small number outsourcing partners, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers components and manufacturers for many the Company\x92 products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods days. Research and Development Because the industries which the Company competes are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\x92 ability compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability ensure continual and timely flow competitive products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company continues develop new technologies enhance existing products and expand the range its product offerings through research and development, licensing intellectual property and acquisition third-party businesses and technology. Total research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod devices, peripherals, software and services. The Company has registered has applied for trademarks and service marks the . and number foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities its personnel. The Company regularly files patent applications protect innovations arising from its research, development and design, and currently pursuing thousands patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated large portfolio issued patents the . and worldwide. The Company holds copyrights relating certain aspects its products and services. single patent copyright solely responsible for protecting the Company\x92 products. The Company believes the duration its patents adequate relative the expected lives its products. Many the Company\x92 products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able obtain such licenses commercially reasonable terms the past, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained the future reasonable terms all. Because technological changes the industries which the Company competes, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible that certain components the Company\x92 products, processes and services may unknowingly infringe existing patents intellectual property rights others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data During , the Company\x92 domestic and international net sales accounted for % and %, respectively, total net sales. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading \x93Segment Operating Performance,\x94 and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 While substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products are currently manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia, the Company also performs final assembly certain products its manufacturing facility Ireland. The supply and manufacture number components performed sole-sourced outsourcing partners the ., Asia and Europe. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding concentration the available sources supply materials and products set forth Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 Business Seasonality and Product Introductions The Company has historically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters its fiscal year due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. Product introductions can also impact the Company\x92 net sales its indirect distribution channels these channels are filled with new product inventory following product introduction, and often, channel inventory particular product declines the next related major product launch approaches. Net sales can also affected when consumers and distributors anticipate product introduction. However, neither historical seasonal patterns nor historical patterns product introductions should considered reliable indicators the Company\x92 future pattern product introductions, future net sales financial performance. Warranty The Company offers limited parts and labor warranty most its hardware products. The basic warranty period typically one year from the date purchase the original end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. addition, where available, consumers may purchase APP +, which extends service coverage many the Company\x92 hardware products. Backlog the Company\x92 experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions customers anticipate shortages. Backlog often reduced once customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Employees September , , the Company had approximately , full-time equivalent employees and additional , full-time equivalent temporary employees and contractors. Approximately , the total full-time equivalent employees worked the Company\x92 Retail segment. Available Information The Company\x92 Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the \x93Exchange Act\x94), are filed with the Securities Exchange Commission (the \x93SEC\x94). The Company subject the informational requirements the Exchange Act and files furnishes reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available free charge the Company\x92 website investor apple com sec cfm when such reports are available the SEC\x92 website. The public may read and copy any materials filed the Company with the SEC the SEC\x92 Public Reference Room Street, , Room , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC www sec gov . The contents these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company\x92 references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors The following discussion risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may important understanding any statement this Form - elsewhere. The following information should read conjunction with Part , Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x94 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes Part , Item , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x94 this Form - . Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company\x92 operations and performance depend significantly global and regional economic conditions. Uncertainty about global and regional economic conditions poses risk consumers and businesses postpone spending response tighter credit, higher unemployment, financial market volatility, government austerity programs, negative financial news, declines income asset values and other factors. These worldwide and regional economic conditions could have material adverse effect demand for the Company\x92 products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Company\x92 expectations because the Company generally raises prices goods and services sold outside the . correspond with the effect strengthening the . dollar. Other factors that could influence worldwide regional demand include increases fuel and other energy costs, conditions the real estate and mortgage markets, unemployment, labor and healthcare costs, access credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Company\x92 products and services. the event further financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation the financial services industry, significant financial service institution failures, there could new incremental tightening the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. This could have number effects the Company\x92 business, including the insolvency financial instability outsourcing partners suppliers their inability obtain credit finance development and manufacture products resulting product delays; inability customers, including channel partners, obtain credit finance purchases the Company\x92 products; failure derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; and restricting the Company\x92 ability issue new debt. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending gains losses realized the sale exchange financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; volatility foreign exchange rates; and changes fair value derivative instruments. Increased volatility the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk the actual amounts realized the future the Company\x92 financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned them. Global markets for the Company\x92 products and services are highly competitive and subject rapid technological change, and the Company may unable compete effectively these markets. The Company\x92 products and services compete highly competitive global markets characterized aggressive price cutting and resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers. The Company\x92 ability compete successfully depends heavily its ability ensure continuing and timely introduction innovative new products and technologies the marketplace. The Company believes unique that designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications, and related services. result, the Company must make significant investments research and development. The Company currently holds significant number patents and copyrights and has registered and has applied register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. contrast, many the Company\x92 competitors seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and emulating the Company\x92 products and infringing its intellectual property. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins competitors infringe the Company\x92 intellectual property, the Company\x92 ability maintain competitive advantage could adversely affected. The Company markets certain mobile communication and media devices based the iOS mobile operating system and also markets related third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces substantial competition these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, well established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships; and the Company has minority market share the smartphone market. Additionally, the Company faces significant price competition competitors reduce their selling prices and attempt imitate the Company\x92 product features and applications within their own products , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company also competes with illegitimate ways obtain third-party digital content and applications. Some the Company\x92 competitors have greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than the Company. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and experience and lower cost structure, they may able provide products and services little profit even loss. The Company also expects competition intensify competitors attempt imitate the Company\x92 approach providing components seamlessly within their individual offerings work collaboratively offer integrated solutions. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results depend substantially the Company\x92 ability continually improve iOS and iOS devices order maintain their functional and design advantages. The Company the only authorized maker hardware using , which has minority market share the personal computer market. This market dominated computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company faces significant number competitors, many which have broader product lines, lower priced products, and larger installed customer base. Historically, consolidation this market has resulted larger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense competitors selling Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. increasing number Internet-enabled devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Company\x92 existing products. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results also depend its ability continually improve the Mac platform maintain its functional and design advantages. There can assurance the Company will able continue provide products and services that compete effectively. remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the industries which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success new product introductions depends number factors including, but not limited , timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Company\x92 ability manage the risks associated with new product production ramp- issues, the availability application software for new products, the effective management purchase commitments and inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities and costs meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects deficiencies the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect new product introductions and transitions. The Company depends the performance distributors, carriers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through cellular network carriers, wholesalers, national and regional retailers, and value-added resellers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells its products and third-party products most its major markets directly education, enterprise and government customers, and consumers and small and mid-sized businesses through its online and retail stores. Carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone typically subsidize users\x92 purchases the device. There assurance that such subsidies will continued all the same amounts upon renewal the Company\x92 agreements with these carriers agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. Many resellers have narrow operating margins and have been adversely affected the past weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion the Company\x92 direct sales conflicting with their business interests distributors and resellers the Company\x92 products. Such perception could discourage resellers from investing resources the distribution and sale the Company\x92 products lead them limit cease distribution those products. The Company has invested and will continue invest programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\x92 stores with Company employees and contractors and improving product placement displays. These programs could require substantial investment while providing assurance return incremental revenue. The financial condition these resellers could weaken, these resellers could stop distributing the Company\x92 products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\x92 products could cause resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\x92 products. The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk addition purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete exceed anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets, including capital assets held its suppliers\x92 facilities and inventory prepayments, for impairment whenever events circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. the Company determines that impairment has occurred, records write-down equal the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair value. Although the Company believes its provisions related inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets and purchase commitments are currently adequate, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional related charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the industries which the Company competes. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product announcements and shipments. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders, each case based projected demand. Where appropriate, the purchases are applied inventory component prepayments that are outstanding with the respective supplier. Purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods days. Because the Company\x92 markets are volatile, competitive and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order produce excess insufficient amounts components products, not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. Future operating results depend upon the Company\x92 ability obtain components sufficient quantities. Because the Company currently obtains components from single limited sources, the Company subject significant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. While the Company has entered into various agreements for the supply components, there can assurance that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. The follow- effects from global economic conditions the Company\x92 suppliers, described \x93 Global economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company\x94 above, also could affect the Company\x92 ability obtain components . Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases. The Company and other participants the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not common the rest these industries. The Company\x92 new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers decided concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. The supply components for new existing product could delayed constrained, key manufacturing vendor could delay shipments completed products the Company. The Company depends component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided outsourcing partners, many whom are located outside the . Substantially all the Company\x92 manufacturing performed whole part few outsourcing partners located primarily Asia. The Company has also outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company\x92 direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity products services, the Company\x92 flexibility respond changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible the consumer for warranty service the event product defects and could experience unanticipated product defect warranty liability. While the Company relies its partners adhere its supplier code conduct, material violations the supplier code conduct could occur. The Company relies sole-sourced outsourcing partners the ., Asia and Europe supply and manufacture many critical components, and outsourcing partners Asia for final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products. Any failure these partners perform may have negative impact the Company\x92 cost supply components finished goods. addition, manufacturing logistics these locations transit final destinations may disrupted for variety reasons including, but not limited , natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, commercial disputes, military actions economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, political issues. The Company has invested manufacturing process equipment, much which held certain its outsourcing partners, and has made prepayments certain its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements. While these arrangements help ensure the supply components and finished goods, these outsourcing partners suppliers experience severe financial problems other disruptions their business, the net realizable value these assets could negatively impacted. The Company\x92 products and services may experience quality problems from time time that can result decreased sales and operating margin and harm the Company\x92 reputation. The Company sells complex hardware and software products and services that can contain design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain \x93bugs\x94 that can unexpectedly interfere with the software\x92 intended operation. The Company\x92 online services may from time time experience outages, service slowdowns, errors. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can assurance the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware, software and services sells. Failure could result lost revenue, significant warranty and other expenses, and harm the Company\x92 reputation. The Company relies access third-party digital content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with numerous third parties offer their digital content through the iTunes Store. This includes the right make available music, movies, shows and books currently available through the iTunes Store. The licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and not guarantee the continuation renewal these arrangements reasonable terms, all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license their content the future. Other content owners, providers distributors may seek limit the Company\x92 access , increase the cost , such content. The Company may unable continue offer wide variety content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach. Failure obtain the right make available third-party digital content, make available such content commercially reasonable terms, could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Some third-party digital content providers require the Company provide digital rights management and other security solutions. requirements change, the Company may have develop license new technology provide these solutions. There assurance the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner. addition, certain countries have passed may propose and adopt legislation that would force the Company license its digital rights management, which could lessen the protection content and subject piracy and also could negatively affect arrangements with the Company\x92 content providers. The Company\x92 future performance depends part support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions customers purchase its hardware products depend part the availability third-party software applications and services. There assurance that third-party developers will continue develop and maintain software applications and services for the Company\x92 products. third-party software applications and services cease developed and maintained for the Company\x92 products, customers may choose not buy the Company\x92 products. With respect its Mac products, the Company believes the availability third-party software applications and services depends part the developers\x92 perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\x92 products compared Windows-based products. This analysis may based factors such the market position the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may generated, continued growth Mac sales, and the costs developing such applications and services. the Company\x92 minority share the global personal computer market causes developers question the Company\x92 prospects, developers could less inclined develop upgrade software for the Company\x92 products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. With respect iOS devices, the Company relies the continued availability and development compelling and innovative software applications, which are distributed through single distribution channel, the App Store. The absence multiple distribution channels, which are available for competing platforms, may limit the availability and acceptance third-party applications the Company\x92 customers, thereby causing developers reduce curtail development for the iOS platform. addition, iOS devices are subject rapid technological change, and, third-party developers are unable choose not keep with this pace change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and may result dissatisfied customers. with applications for the Company\x92 Mac products, the availability and development these applications also depend developers\x92 perceptions and analysis the relative benefits developing software for the Company\x92 products rather than its competitors\x92 platforms, such Android. developers focus their efforts these competing platforms, the availability and quality applications for the Company\x92 iOS devices may suffer. The Company relies access third-party intellectual property, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. Many the Company\x92 products include third-party intellectual property, which requires licenses from those third parties. Based past experience and industry practice, the Company believes such licenses generally can obtained reasonable terms. There , however, assurance that the necessary licenses can obtained acceptable terms all. Failure obtain the right use third-party intellectual property, use such intellectual property commercially reasonable terms, could preclude the Company from selling certain products otherwise have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company could impacted unfavorable results legal proceedings, such being found have infringed intellectual property rights. The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have not yet been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary course business, and additional claims may arise the future. For example, technology companies, including many the Company\x92 competitors, frequently enter into litigation based allegations patent infringement other violations intellectual property rights. addition, patent holding companies seek monetize patents they have purchased otherwise obtained. the Company has grown, the intellectual property rights claims against have increased and may continue increase. particular, the Company\x92 cellular enabled products compete with mobile communication and media device companies that hold significant patent portfolios, and the number patent claims against the Company has significantly increased. The Company vigorously defending infringement actions courts number . jurisdictions and before the . International Trade Commission, well internationally Europe and Asia. The plaintiffs these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless the scope validity such patents other intellectual property rights, the merits any claims potential actual litigants, the Company may have engage protracted litigation. the Company found infringe one more patents other intellectual property rights, regardless whether can develop non-infringing technology, may required pay substantial damages royalties third-party, may subject temporary permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain products. certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements, although assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. These licenses may also significantly increase the Company\x92 operating expenses. Regardless the merit particular claims, litigation may expensive, time-consuming, disruptive the Company\x92 operations, and distracting management. recognition these considerations, the Company may enter into arrangements settle litigation. management\x92 opinion, there not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies, including matters related infringement intellectual property rights. However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Further, such outcome could result significant compensatory, punitive trebled monetary damages, disgorgement revenue profits, remedial corporate measures injunctive relief against the Company that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company subject laws and regulations worldwide, changes which could increase the Company\x92 costs and individually the aggregate adversely affect the Company\x92 business. The Company subject laws and regulations affecting its domestic and international operations number areas. These . and foreign laws and regulations affect the Company\x92 activities including, but not limited , areas labor, advertising, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, -commerce, promotions, quality services, telecommunications, mobile communications and media, television, intellectual property ownership and infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, environmental, health, and safety. way example, laws and regulations related mobile communications and media devices the many jurisdictions which the Company operates are extensive and subject change. Such changes could include, among others, restrictions the production, manufacture, distribution, and use devices, locking devices carrier\x92 network, mandating the use devices more than one carrier\x92 network. These devices are also subject certification and regulation governmental and standardization bodies, well cellular network carriers for use their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result additional testing requirements, product modifications, delays product shipment dates, preclude the Company from selling certain products. Compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may onerous and expensive, and they may inconsistent from jurisdiction jurisdiction, further increasing the cost compliance and doing business. Any such costs, which may rise the future result changes these laws and regulations their interpretation could individually the aggregate make the Company\x92 products and services less attractive the Company\x92 customers, delay the introduction new products one more regions, cause the Company change limit its business practices. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can assurance that the Company\x92 employees, contractors, agents will not violate such laws and regulations the Company\x92 policies and procedures. The Company\x92 business subject the risks international operations. The Company derives significant portion its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with applicable . and foreign laws and regulations, such import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, environmental laws, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs doing business foreign jurisdictions. Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures comply with these laws and regulations, violation the Company\x92 employees, contractors, agents could nevertheless occur. The Company also could significantly affected other risks associated with international activities including, but not limited , economic and labor conditions, increased duties, taxes and other costs, and political instability. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could materially adversely affected international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. The Company also exposed credit and collectability risk its trade receivables with customers certain international markets. There can assurance the Company can effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company\x92 Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. The Company\x92 retail stores have required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness and serve vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company\x92 more typical retail stores. Due the high cost structure associated with the Retail segment, decline sales the closure poor performance individual multiple stores could result significant lease termination costs, write-offs equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs. Many factors unique retail operations, some which are beyond the Company\x92 control, pose risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited , macro-economic factors that could have adverse effect general retail activity, well the Company\x92 inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation, the Company\x92 failure manage relationships with its existing retail channel partners, more challenging environments managing retail operations outside the ., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value retail inventory, and the Company\x92 inability obtain and renew leases quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the Company\x92 ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and the future may invest, new business strategies acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management from current operations, greater than expected liabilities and expenses, inadequate return capital, and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\x92 due diligence. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not successful. The Company\x92 business and reputation may impacted information technology system failures network disruptions. The Company may subject information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may caused natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts terrorism war, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, other events disruptions. System redundancy may ineffective inadequate, and the Company\x92 disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures disruptions could prevent access the Company\x92 online stores and services, preclude retail store transactions, compromise Company customer data, and result delayed cancelled orders. System failures and disruptions could also impede the manufacturing and shipping products, delivery online services, transactions processing and financial reporting. There may breaches the Company\x92 information technology systems that materially damage business partner and customer relationships, curtail otherwise adversely impact access online stores and services, subject the Company significant reputational, financial, legal, and operational consequences. The Company\x92 business requires use and store customer, employee, and business partner personally identifiable information (\x93PII\x94). This may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. Although malicious attacks gain access PII affect many companies across various industries, the Company relatively greater risk being targeted because its high profile and the amount PII manages. The Company requires user names and passwords order access its information technology systems. The Company also uses encryption and authentication technologies secure the transmission and storage data and prevent access Company data accounts. with all companies, these security measures are subject third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, other irregularities. For example, third parties may attempt fraudulently induce employees customers into disclosing user names, passwords other sensitive information, which may turn used access the Company\x92 information technology systems. help protect customers and the Company, the Company monitors accounts and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which may result the delay loss customer orders. The Company devotes significant resources network security, data encryption, and other security measures protect its systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. the extent the Company was experience breach its systems and was unable protect sensitive data, such breach could materially damage business partner and customer relationships, and curtail otherwise adversely impact access online stores and services. Moreover, computer security breach affects the Company\x92 systems results the unauthorized release PII, the Company\x92 reputation and brand could materially damaged, use the Company\x92 products and services could decrease, and the Company could exposed risk loss litigation and possible liability. The Company\x92 business subject variety . and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company subject federal, state and international laws relating the collection, use, retention, security and transfer PII. many cases, these laws apply not only third-party transactions, but also transfers information between the Company and its subsidiaries, and among the Company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the Company has commercial relations. Several jurisdictions have passed laws this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue develop and may inconsistent from jurisdiction jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause the Company incur substantial costs require the Company change its business practices. Noncompliance could result penalties significant legal liability. The Company\x92 privacy policy and related practices concerning the use and disclosure data are posted its website. Any failure the Company, its suppliers other parties with whom the Company does business comply with its posted privacy policy with other federal, state international privacy-related data protection laws and regulations could result proceedings against the Company governmental entities others. The Company also subject payment card association rules and obligations under its contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, information compromised, the Company could liable payment card issuers for associated expenses and penalties. addition, the Company fails follow payment card industry security standards, even customer information compromised, the Company could incur significant fines experience significant increase payment card transaction costs. The Company\x92 success depends largely the continued service and availability key personnel. Much the Company\x92 future success depends the continued availability and service key personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel the technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially Silicon Valley, where most the Company\x92 key personnel are located. The Company\x92 business may impacted political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage disruption international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have material adverse effect the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Company\x92 business operations are subject interruption , among others, natural disasters, fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company\x92 products, make difficult impossible for the Company make and deliver products its customers, including channel partners, receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies the Company\x92 supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could adversely affected more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\x92 manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority the Company\x92 research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are locations that could affected natural disasters. the event natural disaster, the Company could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant expenditures order resume operations. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate. The Company\x92 profit margins vary across its products and distribution channels. The Company\x92 software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain the Company\x92 other products. Gross margins the Company\x92 hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time result product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company\x92 direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. addition, the Company\x92 gross margin and operating margin percentages, well overall profitability, may materially adversely impacted result shift product, geographic channel mix, component cost increases, the strengthening . dollar, price competition, the introduction new products, including those that have higher cost structures with flat reduced pricing. The Company has typically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. The Company could subject unexpected developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\x92 products, issues with new product introductions, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\x92 logistics, components supply, manufacturing partners. The Company\x92 stock price subject volatility. The Company\x92 stock continues experience substantial price volatility. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry, and the stock market whole have experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices ways that may have been unrelated these companies\x92 operating performance. Price volatility over given period may cause the average price which the Company repurchases its own stock exceed the stock\x92 price given point time. The Company believes its stock price reflects expectations future growth and profitability. The Company also believes its stock price reflects expectations that its cash dividend will continue current levels grow and that its current share repurchase program will fully consummated. Future dividends are subject declaration the Company\x92 Board Directors, and the Company\x92 share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. the Company fails meet any these expectations related future growth, profitability, dividends, share repurchases other market expectations its stock price may decline significantly, which could have material adverse impact investor confidence and employee retention. The Company\x92 financial performance subject risks associated with changes the value the . dollar versus local currencies. The Company\x92 primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relates non- . dollar denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. Weakening foreign currencies relative the . dollar adversely affects the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company\x92 products. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could materially adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. some circumstances, for competitive other reasons, the Company may decide not raise local prices fully offset the dollar\x92 strengthening, all, which would adversely affect the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, strengthening foreign currencies relative the . dollar, while generally beneficial the Company\x92 foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company reduce international pricing and incur losses its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening foreign currencies may also increase the Company\x92 cost product components denominated those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company uses derivative instruments, such foreign currency forward and option contracts, hedge certain exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset any more than portion the adverse financial effects unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are place. The Company exposed credit risk and fluctuations the market values its investment portfolio. Given the global nature its business, the Company has both domestic and international investments. Credit ratings and pricing the Company\x92 investments can negatively affected liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk other factors. result, the value and liquidity the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although the Company has not realized any significant losses its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations their value could result significant realized loss. The Company exposed credit risk its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements, and this risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. substantial majority the Company\x92 outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company\x92 exposure credit and collectability risk its trade receivables higher certain international markets and its ability mitigate such risks may limited. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases components outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply inventory components. September , , significant portion the Company\x92 trade receivables was concentrated within cellular network carriers, and its non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements were concentrated among few individual vendors located primarily Asia. While the Company has procedures monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and vendor non-trade receivables well long-term prepayments, there can assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company could subject changes its tax rates, the adoption new . international tax legislation exposure additional tax liabilities. The Company subject taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where number the Company\x92 subsidiaries are organized. Due economic and political conditions, tax rates various jurisdictions may subject significant change. The Company\x92 future effective tax rates could affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation, including the . and Ireland. The Company also subject the examination its tax returns and other tax matters the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcome resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for taxes. There can assurance the outcome these examinations. the Company\x92 effective tax rates were increase, particularly the . Ireland, the ultimate determination the Company\x92 taxes owed for amount excess amounts previously accrued, the Company\x92 operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could adversely affected. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\x92 headquarters are located Cupertino, California. September , , the Company owned leased approximately million square feet building space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, Canada, and the Asia-Pacific regions. that amount approximately million square feet was leased building space, which includes approximately million square feet related retail store space. the Company\x92 owned building space, approximately million square feet that located Cupertino, California will demolished build second corporate campus. Additionally, the Company owns total , acres land various locations. September , , the Company owned manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland that also housed customer support call center and facilities Elk Grove, California that included warehousing and distribution operations and customer support call center. The Company also owned land Austin, Texas where building office space and customer support call center. addition, the Company owned facilities for research and development and corporate functions Cupertino, California, including land for the future development the Company\x92 second corporate campus. The Company also owned data centers Newark, California; Maiden, North Carolina; Prineville, Oregon; and Reno, Nevada. Outside the ., the Company owned additional facilities for various purposes. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment, which are used all operating segments, are good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct its business. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors and continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The Company subject the various legal proceedings and claims discussed below well certain other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary course business. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies. However, the outcome legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company subject significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. See the risk factor \x93 The Company could impacted unfavorable results legal proceedings, such being found have infringed intellectual property rights \x94 Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Risk Factors.\x94 The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\x92 financial condition and results operations. The Apple iPod iTunes Antitrust Litigation (formerly Charoensak . Apple Computer, Inc. and Tucker . Apple Computer, Inc.); Somers . Apple Inc. These related cases were filed January , , July , and December , the United States District Court for the Northern District California behalf purported class direct and indirect purchasers iPods and iTunes Store content, alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music and video purchased the iTunes Store with the purchase iPods and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power under §§ and the Sherman Act, the Cartwright Act, California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act and California monopolization law. Plaintiffs are seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages for the class, treble damages, injunctive relief, disgorgement revenues and profits and attorneys fees. Plaintiffs are also seeking digital rights management free versions any songs downloaded from iTunes order requiring the Company license its digital rights management all competing music players. September , , the . Ninth Circuit Court Appeals upheld the District Court\x92 dismissal the indirect purchaser case, Somers . Apple Inc. The remaining direct purchaser cases are currently pending. Apple eBooks Antitrust Litigation (United States America . Apple Inc., .) April , , the . Department Justice (the \x93DOJ\x94) filed civil antitrust action against the Company and five major book publishers the . District Court for the Southern District New York, alleging unreasonable restraint interstate trade and commerce violation § the Sherman Act and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief, the District Court\x92 declaration that the Company\x92 agency agreements with the publishers are null and void and the District Court\x92 reformation such agreements. The DOJ\x92 complaint asserted, among other things, that the decision the five publishers shift agency model sell eBooks and their agreements with the Company were attempt \x93raise, fix and stabilize retail -book prices, end price competition among -book retailers, and limit retail price competition.\x94 The Company filed response the DOJ complaint late May , denying the DOJ\x92 allegations. All five publishers reached settlement with the DOJ, which required the publishers terminate their agreements with the Company and renegotiate new agreements pursuant the terms their settlement with the DOJ. July , , the District Court found, following bench trial, that the Company conspired restrain trade violation § the Sherman Act and relevant state statutes the extent those laws are congruent with § the Sherman Act. The District Court entered permanent injunction, which took effect October , and will effect for five years unless the judgment overturned appeal. damages trial set for May . The Company has appealed the District Court\x92 decision. ', 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\x92 Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The Company\x92 common stock traded the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC under the symbol AAPL. Price Range Common Stock The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest intraday sales prices for the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC during each quarter the two most recent years. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter price range per share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ price range per share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Holders October , , there were , shareholders record. Dividends The Company paid total $ billion and $ billion dividends during and , respectively, and expects pay quarterly dividends $ per common share each quarter, subject declaration the Board Directors. Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September , was follows ( millions, except number shares, which are reflected thousands, and per share amounts): Fiscal Periods Total Number Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Plans Programs Approximate Dollar Value Shares That May Yet Purchased Under the Plans Programs ( ) June , August , , $ , August , August , , $ , September , September , , $ , Total , $ , ( ) , the Company\x92 Board Directors authorized program repurchase $ billion the Company\x92 common stock beginning . April , the Company\x92 Board Directors increased the share repurchase program authorization from $ billion $ billion. The Company\x92 share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under the program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- the Exchange Act. The $ billion represents the remaining amount available repurchase shares under the authorized repurchase program. Company Stock Performance The following graph shows five-year comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Index, the & Computer Hardware Index, and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index. The graph assumes $ was invested each the Company\x92 common stock, the & Index, the & Computer Hardware Index, and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index the market close September , . Data points the graph are annual. Note that historic stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. *$ invested stock index, including reinvestment dividends. Fiscal year ending September . Copyright © & , division The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. Copyright © Dow Jones & . All rights reserved. September , September , September , September , September , September , Apple Inc. $ $ $ $ $ $ & Index $ $ $ $ $ $ & Computer Hardware Index $ $ $ $ $ $ Dow Jones Technology Supersector Index $ $ $ $ $ $ ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth below for the five years ended September , , not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x94 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Part , Item this Form - fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below ( millions, except number shares, which are reflected thousands, and per share amounts). Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt $ , $ $ $ $ Long-term obligations ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Long-term obligations exclude non-current deferred revenue. ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations,\x94 and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act , that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations future events based certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate any historical current fact. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such \x93future,\x94 \x93anticipates,\x94 \x93believes,\x94 \x93estimates,\x94 \x93expects,\x94 \x93intends,\x94 \x93plans,\x94 \x93predicts,\x94 \x93will,\x94 \x93would,\x94 \x93could,\x94 \x93can,\x94 \x93may,\x94 and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\x92 actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Risk Factors,\x94 which are incorporated herein reference. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Part , Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years, quarters, months periods refer the Company\x92 fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters, months and periods those fiscal years. Each the terms the \x93Company\x94 and \x93Apple\x94 used herein refers collectively Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Overview and Highlights The Company designs, manufactures, and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod compatible products, including application software, and various accessories through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumers; small and mid-sized businesses; and education, enterprise and government customers. Fiscal Highlights Net sales rose % $ billion during compared . This resulted from growth net sales iPhone; iTunes, software, and services; and iPad. Growth reflects strong sales iPhone , strong continuing sales iPhone and , the introduction iPhone and , strong performance the iPad Mini and fourth generation iPad, and continued growth the Company\x92 online sales apps, digital content, and services. Growth these areas was partially offset declines net sales Mac and iPod. All the Company\x92 operating segments experienced increased net sales , with net sales growth being particularly strong the Americas, Greater China and Japan operating segments. Similar , growth total net sales was higher during the first half , rising $ billion % over the same period . First half growth was driven iPhone and iPad introductions near the beginning . During the first quarter , the Company introduced the fourth generation iPad and iPad Mini, new MacBook Pro with Retina display, new iPod touch, new iMac, and expanded the rollout iPhone which began September . June its Worldwide Developer Conference, the Company announced iOS and Mavericks, announced iTunes Radio, introduced significant upgrade MacBook Air, and provided preview all new Mac Pro desktops expected introduced during . September , the Company introduced iPhone and iPhone , released iOS , launched iTunes Radio, and announced that beginning September iPhoto, iMovie and iWork apps for iOS would available free downloads with all new \x93iOS devices,\x94 namely iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. October , the Company announced iPad Air\x99, its fifth generation iPad, and iPad mini with Retina display. April the Company announced significant increase its program return capital shareholders raising the total amount expected utilize for the program through December $ billion. This included increasing its share repurchase authorization $ billion and raising its quarterly dividend $ per common share beginning May . During , the Company utilized $ billion repurchase common shares and paid dividends $ billion $ per common share. conjunction with its capital return program, May the Company issued $ billion notes with varying maturities through . Fiscal Highlights Overall net sales during increased $ billion % compared . All the Company\x92 operating segments experienced increased net sales during , primarily result strong demand for iPhone and iPad. Growth total net sales was particularly strong during the first six months , rising $ billion % compared the same period . The net sales growth during the first six months reflected the launch iPhone the first quarter and the Company\x92 ability meet demand more quickly for iPhone when compared the iPhone launch. Growth during the first half was also favorably impacted strong unit sales iPad during the holiday season, resulting % increase iPad unit sales during the first quarter compared the same quarter . Partially offsetting these positive factors was decrease iPod net sales experienced across all operating segments. October , the Company introduced iPhone and launched iCloud, the Company\x92 cloud service that stores user data and keeps date and available multiple iOS devices and Mac and Windows personal computers. The Company introduced the third generation iPad with Retina display March and June introduced the MacBook Pro with Retina display and updated MacBook Air During the fourth quarter , Mountain Lion was released and iPhone was introduced. March , the Company announced $ billion share repurchase program that would executed over three years and announced plans initiate quarterly dividend commencing the fourth quarter . During the fourth quarter, the Company paid dividends $ billion $ per common share. Sales Data The following table shows net sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product during , and (dollars millions and units thousands): Change Change Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas $ , % $ , % $ , Europe , % , % , Greater China ( ) , % , % , Japan , % , % , Rest Asia Pacific , % , % , Retail , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Net Sales Product: iPhone ( ) $ , % $ , % $ , iPad ( ) , % , % , Mac ( ) , ( )% , % , iPod ( ) , ( )% , ( )% , iTunes, software and services ( ) , % , % , Accessories ( ) , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Product: iPhone , % , % , iPad , % , % , Mac , ( )% , % , iPod , ( )% , ( )% , ( ) Greater China includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. ( ) Includes deferrals and amortization related non-software services and software upgrade rights. ( ) Includes revenue from sales the iTunes Store, the App Store, the Mac App Store, and the iBooks Store, and revenue from sales AppleCare, licensing and other services. ( ) Includes sales hardware peripherals and Apple-branded and third-party accessories for iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod. The Company\x92 fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company\x92 fiscal years , and ended September , , September , and September , , respectively. Both fiscal years and spanned weeks. Fiscal year spanned weeks, with week added the first quarter , done approximately every six years realign the Company\x92 fiscal quarters more closely calendar quarters. Inclusion the additional week increased the Company\x92 overall net sales and operating expenses for the year. Product Performance iPhone The following table presents iPhone net sales and unit sales information for , and (net sales millions and units thousands): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Unit sales , % , % , The growth iPhone net sales and unit sales during resulted from increased demand for iPhone all the Company\x92 operating segments primarily due the launch iPhone beginning September and strong ongoing demand for iPhone and . All the Company\x92 operating segments experienced increases net sales and unit sales iPhone during compared . The year-over-year impact higher iPhone unit sales was partially offset % decline iPhone average selling prices (\x93ASPs\x94) compared primarily result shift product mix towards lower-priced iPhone models, particularly iPhone . All the Company\x92 geographic operating segments experienced decline iPhone ASPs during . The year-over-year growth iPhone net sales and unit sales during reflects strong demand for iPhone all the Company\x92 operating segments, except for the Rest Asia Pacific segment. Growth iPhone sales during primarily result the launches iPhone the first quarter and iPhone the fourth quarter , ongoing demand during for iPhone and iPhone 3GS, and expanded distribution with new carriers and resellers. iPad The following table presents iPad net sales and unit sales information for , and (net sales millions and units thousands): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Unit sales , % , % , The growth net sales and unit sales iPad during resulted from growth iPad unit sales all the Company\x92 operating segments. This growth was driven the launch iPad mini and the fourth generation iPad beginning the first quarter . The year-over-year growth rate total iPad unit sales was significantly higher than the growth rate total iPad net sales for due reduction iPad ASPs % compared . This decline resulted primarily from introduction the lower priced iPad mini and the full year impact the price reduction iPad made . The decline iPad ASPs was experienced various degrees all the Company\x92 operating segments. The year-over-year increase iPad net sales and unit sales during was driven strong demand for iPad all the Company\x92 operating segments result the launch the third generation iPad March , continued demand for iPad , and expanded distribution with new resellers. The year-over-year growth rate iPad unit sales was higher than the growth rate iPad net sales during due % reduction ASPs result shift product mix toward lower-priced iPad models, price reduction iPad and increase indirect sales due expanded distribution through third-party resellers. Mac The following table presents Mac net sales and unit sales information for , and (net sales millions and units thousands): Change Change Net sales $ , ( )% $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Unit sales , ( )% , % , Mac net sales and unit sales for were down relatively flat all the Company\x92 operating segments. Mac ASPs increased slightly partially offsetting the impact lower unit sales net sales. The decline Mac unit sales and net sales reflects the overall weakness the market for personal computers. The year-over-year growth Mac net sales and unit sales during reflects increased demand for Mac portables all the Company\x92 operating segments driven releases updated models MacBook Air and MacBook Pro, including MacBook Pro with Retina display June . Partially offsetting the increase net sales Mac portables was decline net sales Mac desktops that reflected the overall decline the market for desktop personal computers during . Additionally, the Company did not introduce updated versions its Mac desktop products . iTunes, Software and Services The following table presents net sales information iTunes, software and services for , and ( millions): Change Change iTunes, software and services $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The increase net sales iTunes, software and services compared was primarily due growth net sales from the iTunes Store, AppleCare and licensing. The iTunes Store generated total $ billion net sales during , % increase from . Growth the iTunes Store, which includes the App Store, the Mac App Store and the iBooks Store, reflects continued growth the installed base iOS devices, expanded offerings iOS apps and related -App purchases, and expanded offerings iTunes digital content. The increase net sales iTunes, software and services compared was due primarily growth the iTunes Store, which generated total net sales $ billion for compared net sales $ billion during . The strong results the iTunes Store reflect growth the App Store; growth the Company\x92 customer base; and the continued expansion third-party audio, video and book content available for sale rent via the iTunes Store. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. Accordingly, the Company determined its reportable operating segments, which are generally based the nature and location its customers, the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan, Rest Asia Pacific and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. The Greater China segment includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Rest Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian countries, other than those countries included the Company\x92 other operating segments. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores countries, including the . The results the Company\x92 geographic segments not include results the Retail segment. Each operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Americas The following table presents Americas net sales information for , and ( millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The growth the Americas segment net sales during was driven increased sales iPhone following the introduction iPhone September and iPhone and September , increased sales from the iTunes Store, and increased sales iPad, particularly iPad mini. These increases were partially offset decrease net sales iPod and Mac and decline iPad ASPs. The growth net sales during was primarily driven increased demand for iPhone following the launches iPhone and iPhone , strong demand for the third generation iPad and iPad , and higher sales from the iTunes Store. Europe The following table presents Europe net sales information for , and ( millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Similar the Americas segment, growth net sales the Europe segment during was primarily driven increased sales iPhone, iPad and higher net sales from iTunes. These increases were partially offset decreases net sales Mac and iPod and decline iPad ASPs. Net sales the Europe segment continue negatively impacted unfavorable economic conditions parts the region reflected second half net sales falling % compared the second half , which followed % increase net sales during the first half . The growth net sales during was primarily driven strong demand for the third generation iPad and iPad , higher sales from the iTunes Store and increased demand for iPhone from the launch iPhone . iPhone was launched limited number countries the Europe segment the end the fourth quarter and did not contribute the growth net sales the Europe segment the extent did other segments. Lower year-over-year growth net sales the Europe segment during compared the Company\x92 other geographic segments reflects growth iPhone unit sales that was well below the growth rates experienced the Company\x92 other operating segments, partially offset strong growth iPad unit sales. Net sales the Europe segment were also negatively impacted the region\x92 uncertain economic conditions and the strength the . dollar relative several European currencies, including the euro. Greater China The following table presents Greater China net sales information for , and ( millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The growth net sales the Greater China segment during resulted from two major iPhone introductions during the year, iPhone December and iPhone and iPhone September . Further contributing the growth was the introduction the fourth generation iPad and iPad mini during the second quarter and increase iPhone channel inventory the end compared the end . While net sales the China segment were % for all , net sales for the second half declined % compared the second half . The growth net sales during was mainly due increased demand for iPhone following the launch iPhone and strong demand for the third generation iPad and iPad . Growth the Greater China segment was affected the timing iPhone and iPad product launches. iPhone was not launched China during , and the third generation iPad that was introduced the Company March was not launched China until the fourth quarter . Japan The following table presents Japan net sales information for , and ( millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The increase net sales the Japan segment during reflects significant increases unit volumes iPhone and iPad, strong growth iTunes Store net sales and increase iPhone channel inventory the end compared the end . These positive factors were partially offset declines ASPs for iPhone and iPad and weakness the Japanese Yen relative the . dollar. The growth net sales during was primarily driven increased demand for iPhone following the launches iPhone and iPhone , expanded distribution with new iPhone carrier, strong demand for the third generation iPad and iPad , higher sales from the iTunes Store, and strength the Japanese Yen relative the . dollar. Rest Asia Pacific The following table presents Rest Asia Pacific net sales information for , and ( millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The growth net sales during was primarily driven the launch iPhone and higher sales from iTunes, partially offset decrease net sales iPad and Mac. The growth net sales during was mainly due strong demand for the third generation iPad. The Rest Asia Pacific segment experienced significantly lower year-over-year growth net sales compared all the Company\x92 other operating segments due primarily decrease iPhone sales. This decrease reflects the timing iPhone launches the Rest Asia Pacific segment, which only occurred limited number countries during the fourth quarter . Retail The following table presents Retail net sales information for , and ( millions, except for store counts): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % . stores International stores Total store count The growth net sales during was primarily driven increased unit sales iPhone and iPad following the new product introductions the first half and increased sales services. With average and open stores during and , respectively, average revenue per store decreased $ million , compared $ million . The growth net sales during was driven primarily increased demand for iPhone following the launches iPhone and iPhone , strong demand for the third generation iPad and iPad , and higher Mac net sales. Lower year-over-year growth net sales the Retail segment during compared the Company\x92 other segments reflects the significant growth iPad indirect distribution channel expansion. With average stores and stores during and , respectively, average revenue per store increased % $ million compared $ million . The Retail segment\x92 operating income was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion during , , and , respectively. The year-over-year decrease Retail operating income primarily attributable lower gross margin similar that experienced the Company overall, partially offset higher net sales. The year-over-year increase Retail operating income primarily attributable higher overall net sales that resulted significantly higher average revenue per store during . Gross Margin Gross margin for , and are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % The gross margin percentage was % compared % . The year-over-year decrease gross margin compared was driven multiple factors including introduction new versions existing products with higher cost structures and flat reduced pricing; shift sales mix products with lower margins; introduction iPad mini with gross margin significantly below the Company\x92 average product margins; higher expenses associated with changes certain the Company\x92 service policies and other warranty costs; price reductions certain products, including iPad and iPhone ; and unfavorable impact from foreign exchange fluctuations. The gross margin percentage was %, compared % . This year-over-year increase gross margin was largely driven lower commodity and other product costs, higher mix iPhone sales, and improved leverage fixed costs from higher net sales. The increase gross margin was partially offset the impact stronger . dollar. The gross margin percentage during the first half was % compared % during the second half . The primary drivers higher gross margin the first half compared the second half are higher mix iPhone sales and improved leverage fixed costs from higher net sales. Additionally, gross margin the second half was also affected the introduction new products with flat pricing that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value customers, price reductions certain existing products, higher transition costs associated with product launches, and continued strengthening the . dollar; partially offset lower commodity costs. The Company anticipates gross margin during the first quarter between % and %. The foregoing statement regarding the Company\x92 expected gross margin percentage the first quarter forward-looking and could differ from actual results. The Company\x92 future gross margin can impacted multiple factors including, but not limited those set forth above Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Risk Factors\x94 and those described this paragraph. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions, potential increases the cost components, and potential strengthening the . dollar, well potential increases the costs outside manufacturing services and potential shift the Company\x92 sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. response competitive pressures, the Company expects will continue take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also affected the Company\x92 ability manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and stimulate demand for certain its products. Due the Company\x92 significant international operations, financial results can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for , and are follows ( millions, except for percentages): Change Change Research and development $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Total operating expenses $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Research and Development (\x93 & \x94) Expense The growth & expense was driven increase headcount and related expenses support expanded & activities. Although total & expense increased % and % and , respectively, remained fairly consistent percentage net sales. The Company continues believe that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\x92 core business strategy. such, the Company expects make further investments & remain competitive. Selling, General and Administrative (\x93 & \x94) Expense The growth & during was primarily due the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment and increased headcount and related expenses, partially offset decreased spending professional services. The growth & during was primarily due the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment, increased headcount and related expenses, higher spending professional services, marketing and advertising programs, and increased variable costs associated with the overall growth the Company\x92 net sales. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for , and are follows ( millions): Change Change Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ Interest expense ( ) Other expense, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ , % $ % $ The year-over-year increase other income and expense during was due primarily higher interest and dividend income resulting from the Company\x92 higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances and lower premium expenses foreign exchange contracts, partially offset interest expense debt issued the third quarter and remeasurement losses from foreign exchange rate movements. The overall increase other income and expense compared was attributable higher interest and dividend income the Company\x92 higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, partially offset higher premium expenses foreign exchange contracts. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was % during and and % during . The Company had debt outstanding during and and accordingly did not incur any related interest expense. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes and effective tax rates for , and are follows ( millions): Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Company\x92 effective tax rates for all periods differ from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings, substantial portion which was generated subsidiaries organized Ireland, for which . taxes are provided because such earnings are intended indefinitely reinvested outside the . September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ billion, and deferred tax liabilities $ billion. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient fully recover the deferred tax assets. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service (the \x93IRS\x94) has completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS currently examining the years through . All IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. addition, the Company subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income taxes the period such resolution occurs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics and for the years ended September , , September , and September , ( millions): Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , Property, plant and equipment, net $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt $ , $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Cash generated operating activities $ , $ , $ , Cash used investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Cash generated/(used ) financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. The Company anticipates the cash used for future dividends and the share repurchase program will come from its current domestic cash, cash generated from -going . operating activities and from borrowings. September , and September , , $ billion and $ billion, respectively, the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company\x92 marketable securities investment portfolio invested primarily highly-rated securities and its investment policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The policy requires investments generally investment grade with the objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. During , cash generated from operating activities $ billion was result $ billion net income, non-cash adjustments net income $ billion and increase net change operating assets and liabilities $ billion. Cash used investing activities $ billion during consisted primarily net purchases, sales and maturities marketable securities $ billion and cash used acquire property, plant and equipment $ billion. Cash used financing activities during consisted primarily cash used repurchase common stock $ billion and cash used pay dividends and dividend equivalent rights $ billion, partially offset net proceeds from the issuance long-term debt $ billion. During , cash generated from operating activities $ billion was result $ billion net income and non-cash adjustments net income $ billion, partially offset decrease net operating assets and liabilities $ million. Cash used investing activities during $ billion consisted primarily net purchases, sales and maturities marketable securities $ billion and cash used acquire property, plant and equipment $ billion. Cash used financing activities during $ billion consisted primarily cash used pay dividends and dividend equivalent rights $ billion. Capital Assets The Company\x92 capital expenditures were $ billion during , consisting $ million for retail store facilities and $ billion for other capital expenditures, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and other corporate facilities and infrastructure. The Company\x92 actual cash payments for capital expenditures during were $ billion. The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $ billion for capital expenditures during , including approximately $ million for retail store facilities and approximately $ billion for other capital expenditures, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements. During , the Company expects open about new retail stores, with approximately two-thirds located outside the . During , the Company also expects remodel approximately its existing stores. Long-Term Debt the third quarter , the Company issued $ billion long-term debt, which included $ billion floating-rate notes. manage the risk adverse fluctuations interest rates associated with the floating-rate notes, the Company entered into interest rate swaps with aggregate notional amount $ billion, which, effect, fixed the interest rate the floating-rate notes. the aggregate principal amount $ billion, $ billion due and $ billion due through . Dividend and Stock Repurchase Program the third quarter , the Company raised its cash dividend % $ per common share. The Company expects continue pay quarterly dividends $ per common share each quarter, subject declaration the Board Directors. , the Company\x92 Board Directors authorized program repurchase $ billion the Company\x92 common stock. April , the Company\x92 Board Directors increased the share repurchase program authorization from $ billion $ billion, which $ billion had been utilized September , . The share repurchase program expected completed December . The Company\x92 share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under the program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- the Exchange Act. Beginning August through December , the Company anticipates will utilize approximately $ billion pay dividends and dividend equivalent rights, repurchase shares, and remit withheld taxes related net share settlement restricted stock units, which $ billion had been utilized through September , . The following table presents the Company\x92 dividends, share repurchases and net share settlement activity for and since the start the program ( millions): Dividends and Dividend Equivalent Rights Paid Accelerated Share Repurchases Open Market Share Repurchases Taxes Related Settlement Equity Awards Total $ , $ $ $ $ , , , , , , Total $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, credit risk support the Company. The following table presents certain payments due the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments September , and excludes amounts already recorded the Consolidated Balance Sheet, except for long-term debt ( millions): Payments Due Less Than Year Payments Due - Years Payments Due - Years Payments Due More Than Years Total Long-term debt $ $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating leases , , , , Purchase obligations , , Other obligations , , Total $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Lease Commitments The Company\x92 major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding years and generally provide renewal options for terms not exceeding five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\x92 total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion, which $ billion related leases for retail space. Purchase Commitments with Outsourcing Partners and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\x92 products and perform final assembly and testing finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Where appropriate, the purchases are applied inventory component prepayments that are outstanding with the respective supplier. September , , the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments $ billion. Other Obligations addition the off-balance sheet commitments mentioned above, the Company had outstanding obligations $ billion September , , that consisted mainly commitments acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and commitments related advertising, research and development, Internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. The Company\x92 other non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist primarily deferred tax liabilities, gross unrecognized tax benefits and the related gross interest and penalties. September , , the Company had non-current deferred tax liabilities $ billion. Additionally, September , , the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits $ billion and additional $ million for gross interest and penalties classified non-current liabilities. this time, the Company unable make reasonably reliable estimate the timing payments individual years connection with these tax liabilities; therefore, such amounts are not included the above contractual obligation table. Indemnification The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against indemnified third-party. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss with respect indemnification end-users its operating system application software for infringement third-party intellectual property rights. The Company did not record liability for infringement costs related indemnification September , September , . The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage reduce its exposure such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not been material. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94) and the Company\x92 discussion and analysis its financial condition and operating results require the Company\x92 management make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies\x94 the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Part , Item this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may material. Management believes the Company\x92 critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, valuation and impairment marketable securities, inventory valuation and valuation manufacturing-related assets and estimated purchase commitment cancellation fees, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Company\x92 senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company\x92 Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale hardware products, software bundled with hardware that essential the functionality the hardware, and third-party digital content sold the iTunes Store accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types sales transactions: ( ) standalone sales software products, ( ) sales software upgrades and (iii) sales software bundled with hardware not essential the functionality the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential the hardware product\x92 functionality, undelivered software elements that relate the hardware product\x92 essential software, and undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based their relative selling prices. such circumstances, the Company uses hierarchy determine the selling price used for allocating revenue deliverables: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (\x93VSOE\x94), ( ) third-party evidence selling price (\x93TPE\x94) and (iii) best estimate selling price (\x93ESP\x94). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and the price actually charged the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Company\x92 best estimates what the selling prices elements would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. For sales qualifying versions iOS devices, Mac and Apple , the Company has indicated may from time time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features free charge customers. The Company also provides various non-software services owners qualifying versions iOS devices and Mac. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for the unspecified software upgrade rights the non-software services, revenue allocated these rights and services based the Company\x92 ESPs. Revenue allocated the unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services based the Company\x92 ESPs deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected provided for each these devices, which ranges from two four years. The Company\x92 process for determining ESPs involves management\x92 judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable. Should future facts and circumstances change, the Company\x92 ESPs and the future rate related amortization for software upgrades and non-software services related future sales these devices could change. Factors subject change include the unspecified software upgrade rights offered, the estimated value unspecified software upgrade rights, the estimated actual costs incurred provide non-software services, and the estimated period software upgrades and non-software services are expected provided. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and other customer incentive programs. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net the estimated amount refunded, provided the refund amount can reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Company\x92 policy requires that, refunds cannot reliably estimated, revenue not recognized until reliable estimates can made the price protection lapses. For the Company\x92 other customer incentive programs, the estimated cost recognized the later the date which the Company has sold the product the date which the program offered. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs that could result reductions future revenue. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Management\x92 estimates are based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeems such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which would have adverse impact the Company\x92 results operations. Valuation and Impairment Marketable Securities The Company\x92 investments available-for-sale securities are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related changes the fair value securities are recognized accumulated other comprehensive income, net tax, the Company\x92 Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes the fair value available-for-sale securities impact the Company\x92 net income only when such securities are sold other-than-temporary impairment recognized. Realized gains and losses the sale securities are determined specific identification each security\x92 cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio determine any security other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require the Company record impairment charge the period any such determination made. making this judgment, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent which the fair value security less than its cost; the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto; and the Company\x92 intent sell, whether will more likely than not required sell, the security before recovery its amortized cost basis. The Company\x92 assessment whether security other-than-temporarily impaired could change the future due new developments changes assumptions related any particular security. Inventory Valuation and Valuation Manufacturing-Related Assets and Estimated Purchase Commitment Cancellation Fees The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments and has invested manufacturing process equipment, including capital assets held its suppliers\x92 facilities. addition, the Company has made prepayments certain its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply inventory components. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The Company also reviews its manufacturing-related capital assets and inventory prepayments for impairment whenever events circumstances indicate the carrying amount such assets may not recoverable. the Company determines that asset not recoverable, records impairment loss equal the amount which the carrying value such asset exceeds its fair value. The industries which the Company competes are subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. certain circumstances the Company may required record additional write-downs inventory, inventory prepayments and manufacturing-related capital assets. These circumstances include future demand market conditions for the Company\x92 products being less favorable than forecasted, unforeseen technological changes changes the Company\x92 product development plans that negatively impact the utility any these assets, significant deterioration the financial condition one more the Company\x92 suppliers that hold any the Company\x92 manufacturing process equipment whom the Company has made inventory prepayment. Such write-downs would adversely affect the Company\x92 results operations the period when the write-downs were recorded. The Company records accruals for estimated cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled are expected cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders each case based projected demand. Where appropriate, the purchases are applied inventory component prepayments that are outstanding with the respective supplier. Purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\x92 products, the Company\x92 product development plans change, there unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\x92 products, then the Company may required record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would adversely affect its results operations the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates these estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size the installed base products subject warranty protection and adjusts the amounts necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liabilities would required and could materially affect the Company\x92 results operations. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. The provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient fully recover the deferred tax assets. the event that the Company determines all part the net deferred tax assets are not realizable the future, the Company will make adjustment the valuation allowance that would charged earnings the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\x92 expectations could have material impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Legal Proceedings\x94 and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Commitments and Contingencies,\x94 the Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. The Company records liability when probable that loss has been incurred and the amount reasonably estimable. There significant judgment required both the probability determination and whether exposure can reasonably estimated. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies for legal and other contingencies. However, the outcome legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company subject significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and interest rate swaps, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. Given the effective horizons the Company\x92 risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance these positions will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. Further, the recognition the gains and losses related these instruments may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk Investments While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\x92 leading industrialized countries, the Company\x92 interest income most sensitive fluctuations . interest rates. Changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, the fair value those securities, well costs associated with hedging. The Company\x92 investment policy and strategy are focused preservation capital and supporting the liquidity requirements the Company. portion the Company\x92 cash managed external managers within the guidelines the Company\x92 investment policy and objective market benchmarks. The Company\x92 internal portfolio benchmarked against external manager performance. The Company\x92 exposure changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\x92 investment portfolio. The Company typically invests highly-rated securities, and its investment policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The policy requires investments generally investment grade, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ billion incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point increase the yield curve would have resulted $ billion incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Long-Term Debt the third quarter , the Company issued $ billion long-term debt, which included $ billion floating-rate notes. manage the risk fluctuations interest rates associated with the floating-rate notes, the Company entered into interest rate swaps with aggregate notional amount $ billion, which, effect, fixed the interest rate the floating-rate notes. Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, will negatively affect the Company\x92 net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there have been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. The Company\x92 practice hedge portion its material foreign exchange exposures, typically for months. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for variety reasons, including but not limited accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\x92 foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (\x93VAR\x94) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate thousands random market price paths assuming normal market conditions. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\x92 foreign currency derivative positions due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, the loss fair value incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount changes interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates and the Company\x92 actual exposures and positions. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and per share amounts) Years ended September , September , September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development , , , Selling, general and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income/(expense), net , Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income/(loss): Change foreign currency translation, net tax effects $ , $ and $ , respectively ( ) ( ) ( ) Change unrecognized gains losses derivative instruments: Change fair value derivatives, net tax benefit/(expense) $( ), $ and $( ), respectively ( ) Adjustment for net losses/(gains) realized and included net income, net tax expense/(benefit) $ , $ and $( ), respectively ( ) ( ) Total change unrecognized gains losses derivative instruments, net tax ( ) Change unrealized gains losses marketable securities: Change fair value marketable securities, net tax benefit/(expense) $ , $( ) and $ , respectively ( ) Adjustment for net losses/(gains) realized and included net income, net tax expense/(benefit) $ , $ and $( ), respectively ( ) ( ) ( ) Total change unrealized gains losses marketable securities, net tax ( ) ( ) Total other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) Total comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands) September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively , , Inventories , Deferred tax assets , , Vendor non-trade receivables , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Long-term marketable securities , , Property, plant and equipment, net , , Goodwill , , Acquired intangible assets, net , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , , Deferred revenue , , Total current liabilities , , Deferred revenue \x96 non-current , , Long-term debt , Other non-current liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\x92 equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , and , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) Total shareholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands) Common Stock Retained Earnings Accum- ulated Other Compre- hensive Income/ (Loss) Total Share- holders\x92 Equity Shares Amount Balances September , , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Net income , , Other comprehensive income/(loss) Share-based compensation , , Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments Balances September , , , , , Net income , , Other comprehensive income/(loss) Dividends and dividend equivalent rights declared ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation , , Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) ( ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments , , Balances September , , , , , Net income , , Other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) ( ) Dividends and dividend equivalent rights declared ( , ) ( , ) Repurchase common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation , , Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) ( ) ( ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments , , Balances September , , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating activities: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization , , , Share-based compensation expense , , , Deferred income tax expense , , , Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable, net ( , ) ( , ) Inventories ( ) ( ) Vendor non-trade receivables ( , ) ( , ) Other current and non-current assets , ( , ) ( , ) Accounts payable , , , Deferred revenue , , , Other current and non-current liabilities , , , Cash generated operating activities , , , Investing activities: Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities marketable securities , , , Proceeds from sales marketable securities , , , Payments made connection with business acquisitions, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Payments for acquisition property, plant and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments for acquisition intangible assets ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities: Proceeds from issuance common stock Excess tax benefits from equity awards , , Taxes paid related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Dividends and dividend equivalent rights paid ( , ) ( , ) Repurchase common stock ( , ) Proceeds from issuance long-term debt, net , Cash generated /(used ) financing activities ( , ) ( , ) , Increase/(decrease) cash and cash equivalents , ( , ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosure: Cash paid for income taxes, net $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note \x96 Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively \x93Apple\x94 the \x93Company\x94) designs, manufactures, and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod compatible products, including application software, and various accessories through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94) requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior period amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current period\x92 presentation. The Company\x92 fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company\x92 fiscal years , and ended September , , September , and September , , respectively. additional week included the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal year spanned weeks, with 14th week included the first quarter . Fiscal years and spanned weeks each. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years, quarters, months and periods refer the Company\x92 fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters, months and periods those fiscal years. During the first quarter , the Company adopted amended accounting standards that changed the presentation comprehensive income. These standards increased the prominence other comprehensive income (\x93OCI\x94) eliminating the option present components OCI part the statement changes shareholders\x92 equity and required the components OCI presented either single continuous statement comprehensive income two consecutive statements. The amended accounting standards only impacted the financial statement presentation OCI and did not change the components that are recognized net income OCI; accordingly, the adoption had impact the Company\x92 financial position results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale hardware products, software bundled with hardware that essential the functionality the hardware, and third-party digital content sold the iTunes Store accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types sales transactions: ( ) standalone sales software products, ( ) sales software upgrades and (iii) sales software bundled with hardware not essential the functionality the hardware. For the sale most third-party products, the Company recognizes revenue based the gross amount billed customers because the Company establishes its own pricing for such products, retains related inventory risk for physical products, the primary obligor the customer and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. For third-party applications sold through the App Store and Mac App Store and certain digital content sold through the iTunes Store, the Company does not determine the selling price the products and not the primary obligor the customer. Therefore, the Company accounts for such sales net basis recognizing net sales only the commission retains from each sale. The portion the gross amount billed customers that remitted the Company third-party app developers and certain digital content owners not reflected the Company\x92 Consolidated Statements Operations. The Company records deferred revenue when receives payments advance the delivery products the performance services. This includes amounts that have been deferred for unspecified and specified software upgrade rights and non-software services that are attached hardware and software products. The Company sells gift cards redeemable its retail and online stores, and also sells gift cards redeemable the iTunes Store for the purchase digital content and software. The Company records deferred revenue upon the sale the card, which relieved upon redemption the card the customer. Revenue from AppleCare service and support contracts deferred and recognized over the service coverage periods. AppleCare service and support contracts typically include extended phone support, repair services, web-based support resources and diagnostic tools offered under the Company\x92 standard limited warranty. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and other customer incentive programs. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net the estimated amount refunded. For the Company\x92 other customer incentive programs, the estimated cost these programs recognized the later the date which the Company has sold the product the date which the program offered. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Revenue recorded net taxes collected from customers that are remitted governmental authorities, with the collected taxes recorded current liabilities until remitted the relevant government authority. Revenue Recognition for Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential the hardware product\x92 functionality, undelivered software elements that relate the hardware product\x92 essential software, and undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based their relative selling prices. such circumstances, the Company uses hierarchy determine the selling price used for allocating revenue deliverables: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (\x93VSOE\x94), ( ) third-party evidence selling price (\x93TPE\x94), and (iii) best estimate selling price (\x93ESP\x94). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and the price actually charged the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Company\x92 best estimates what the selling prices elements would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. For multi-element arrangements accounted for accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based the VSOE each element, and VSOE does not exist revenue recognized when elements lacking VSOE are delivered. For sales qualifying versions iPhone, iPad and iPod touch (\x93iOS devices\x94), Mac and Apple , the Company has indicated may from time time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features the essential software bundled with each these hardware products free charge customers. Essential software for iOS devices includes iOS and related applications and for Mac includes and related applications. The Company also provides various non-software services owners qualifying versions iOS devices and Mac. The Company has identified three deliverables regularly included arrangements involving the sale these devices. The first deliverable the hardware and software essential the functionality the hardware device delivered the time sale. The second deliverable the embedded right included with the purchase iOS devices, Mac and Apple receive when-and- -available basis, future unspecified software upgrades and features relating the product\x92 essential software. The third deliverable the non-software services provided qualifying versions iOS devices and Mac. The Company allocates revenue between these deliverables using the relative selling price method. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for these deliverables, the allocation revenue based the Company\x92 ESPs. Revenue allocated the delivered hardware and the related essential software recognized the time sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Revenue allocated the embedded unspecified software upgrade rights and the non-software services deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected provided for each these devices, which ranges from two four years. Cost sales related delivered hardware and related essential software, including estimated warranty costs, are recognized the time sale. Costs incurred provide non-software services are recognized cost sales incurred, and engineering and sales and marketing costs are recognized operating expenses incurred. The Company\x92 process for determining its ESP for deliverables without VSOE TPE considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable. The Company believes its customers would reluctant buy unspecified software upgrade rights for the essential software included with its qualifying hardware products. This view primarily based the fact that unspecified software upgrade rights not obligate the Company provide upgrades particular time all, and not specify customers which upgrades features will delivered. The Company also believes its customers would unwilling pay significant amount for access the non-software services because other companies offer similar services little cost users. Therefore, the Company has concluded that were sell upgrade rights access the non-software services standalone basis, including those rights and services attached iOS devices, Mac and Apple , the selling prices would relatively low. Key factors considered the Company developing the ESPs for software upgrade rights include prices charged the Company for similar offerings, market trends the pricing Apple-branded and third-party Mac and iOS compatible software, the nature the upgrade rights ( ., unspecified versus specified), and the relative ESP the upgrade rights compared the total selling price the product. The Company may also consider additional factors appropriate, including the impact other products and services provided customers, the pricing competitive alternatives they exist, product-specific business objectives, and the length time particular version device has been available. When relevant, the same factors are considered the Company developing ESPs for offerings such the non-software services with additional consideration given the estimated cost provide such services. , and , the Company\x92 combined ESPs for the unspecified software upgrade rights and the rights receive the non-software services included with its qualifying hardware devices have ranged from $ $ . Beginning September , the combined ESPs for iPhone and iPad were increased $ reflect additions unspecified software upgrade rights due expansion essential software bundled with these devices. Accordingly, the range combined ESPs for iPhone and iPad September $ $ . Beginning October , the Company anticipates increasing the combined ESPs for Mac from $ $ reflect additions unspecified software upgrade rights related expansion bundled essential software. Revenue allocated such rights deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated period the rights are expected provided for each device, which ranges from two four years. Shipping Costs For all periods presented, amounts billed customers related shipping and handling are classified revenue, and the Company\x92 shipping and handling costs are included cost sales. Warranty Expense The Company generally provides for the estimated cost hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. The Company assesses the adequacy its pre-existing warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. Software Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased, otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\x92 technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers. most instances, the Company\x92 products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility were not significant, and software development costs were expensed incurred during , and . Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred and included selling, general and administrative expenses. Advertising expense was $ billion, $ billion and $ million for , and , respectively. Share-based Compensation The Company recognizes expense related share-based payment transactions which receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the Company ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\x92 equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. Share-based compensation cost for restricted stock units (\x93RSUs\x94) measured based the closing fair market value the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. Share-based compensation cost for stock options and employee stock purchase plan rights (\x93stock purchase rights\x94) measured the grant date and offering date, respectively, based the fair-value calculated the Black-Scholes-Merton (\x93BSM\x94) option-pricing model. The BSM option-pricing model incorporates various assumptions including expected volatility, estimated expected life and interest rates. The Company recognizes share-based compensation cost over the award\x92 requisite service period straight-line basis for time-based RSUs and graded basis for RSUs that are contingent the achievement performance metrics. The Company recognizes benefit from share-based compensation the Consolidated Statements Shareholders\x92 Equity incremental tax benefit realized. addition, the Company recognizes the indirect effects share-based compensation research and development tax credits, foreign tax credits and domestic manufacturing deductions the Consolidated Statements Operations. Further information regarding share-based compensation can found Note , \x93Benefit Plans\x94 this Form - . Income Taxes The provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company recognizes the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon settlement. See Note , \x93Income Taxes\x94 this Form - for additional information. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the potentially dilutive securities had been issued. Potentially dilutive securities include outstanding stock options, shares purchased under the Company\x92 employee stock purchase plan and unvested RSUs. The dilutive effect potentially dilutive securities reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company\x92 common stock can result greater dilutive effect from potentially dilutive securities. The following table shows the computation basic and diluted earnings per share for , , and ( thousands, except net income millions and per share amounts): Numerator: Net income $ , $ , $ , Denominator: Weighted-average shares outstanding , , , Effect dilutive securities , , , Weighted-average diluted shares , , , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ Potentially dilutive securities representing million, million and million shares common stock for , and , respectively, were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per share for these periods because their effect would have been antidilutive. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. The Company\x92 marketable debt and equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments the time purchase and reevaluates the designations each balance sheet date. The Company classifies its marketable debt securities either short-term long-term based each instrument\x92 underlying contractual maturity date. Marketable debt securities with maturities months less are classified short-term and marketable debt securities with maturities greater than months are classified long-term. The Company classifies its marketable equity securities, including mutual funds, either short-term long-term based the nature each security and its availability for use current operations. The Company\x92 marketable debt and equity securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\x92 equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the effective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument reported component accumulated other comprehensive income (\x93AOCI\x94) shareholders\x92 equity and reclassified into income the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument, any, recognized current income. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For options designated cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized income. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, both the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The Company had fair value hedges , and . The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward exchange contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current income. Derivatives that not qualify hedges are adjusted fair value through current income. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment various factors. The Company considers historical experience, the age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality the Company\x92 customers, current economic conditions, and other factors that may affect customers\x92 ability pay. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost, computed using the first- , first-out method, market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which for buildings the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building; between two five years for machinery and equipment, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment; and the shorter lease terms ten years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from three five years. Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion during , and , respectively. Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant and equipment, inventory component prepayments, and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amounts future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant and equipment, inventory component prepayments, and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair value. The Company did not record any significant impairments during , and . The Company does not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, rather such assets are required tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the assets may impaired. The Company performs its goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests the fourth quarter each year. The Company did not recognize any impairment charges related goodwill indefinite lived intangible assets during , and . The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. and , the Company\x92 goodwill was allocated the Americas and Europe reportable operating segments. The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment. The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite useful lives over periods typically from three seven years. Fair Value Measurements The Company applies fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis. The Company defines fair value the price that would received from selling asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, which are required recorded fair value, the Company considers the principal most advantageous market which the Company would transact and the market-based risk measurements assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability, such risks inherent valuation techniques, transfer restrictions and credit risk. Fair value estimated applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level input that available and significant the fair value measurement: Level \x96 Quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. Level \x96 Observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Level \x96 Inputs that are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\x92 estimate assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. The Company\x92 valuation techniques used measure the fair value money market funds and certain marketable equity securities were derived from quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. The valuation techniques used measure the fair value all other financial instruments, all which have counterparties with high credit ratings, were valued based quoted market prices model driven valuations using significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. accordance with the fair value accounting requirements, companies may choose measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items fair value. The Company has not elected the fair value option for any eligible financial instruments. Foreign Currency Translation and Remeasurement The Company translates the assets and liabilities its non- . dollar functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are recognized foreign currency translation included AOCI shareholders\x92 equity. The Company\x92 subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these remeasurements were not significant and have been included the Company\x92 results operations. Note \x96 Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables show the Company\x92 cash and available-for-sale securities\x92 adjusted cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value significant investment category recorded cash and cash equivalents short- long-term marketable securities September , and September , ( millions): Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-Term Marketable Securities Long-Term Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Level : Money market funds , , , Mutual funds , ( ) , , Subtotal , ( ) , , , Level : . Treasury securities , ( ) , , , . agency securities , ( ) , , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , , , Commercial paper , , , , Corporate securities , ( ) , , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , , Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , , Subtotal , ( ) , , , , Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-Term Marketable Securities Long-Term Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Level : Money market funds , , , Mutual funds , ( ) , , Subtotal , ( ) , , , Level : . Treasury securities , ( ) , , , , . agency securities , ( ) , , , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , , , Commercial paper , , , Corporate securities , ( ) , , , Municipal securities , , , Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , , Subtotal , ( ) , , , , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , The net unrealized losses September , and the net unrealized gains September , are related primarily long-term marketable securities. The Company may sell certain its marketable securities prior their stated maturities for strategic reasons including, but not limited , anticipation credit deterioration and duration management. During , and , the net realized gains recognized the Company were not significant. The maturities the Company\x92 long-term marketable securities generally range from one five years. September , and September , , gross unrealized losses related individual securities that had been continuous loss position for months longer were not significant. September , , the Company considered the declines market value its marketable securities investment portfolio temporary nature and did not consider any its investments other-than-temporarily impaired. The Company typically invests highly-rated securities, and its investment policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The policy requires investments generally investment grade, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. Fair values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. When evaluating investment for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below its cost basis, the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto, changes market interest rates, and the Company\x92 intent sell, whether more likely than not will required sell, the investment before recovery the investment\x92 cost basis. During , and the Company did not recognize any significant impairment charges. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign currency and interest rate risk. The Company may enter into forward contracts, option contracts, swaps, other derivative instruments offset some the risk expected future cash flows, net investments certain foreign subsidiaries, and certain existing assets and liabilities. help protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, certain the Company\x92 subsidiaries whose functional currency the . dollar hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenue. The Company\x92 subsidiaries whose functional currency not the . dollar and who sell local currencies may hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\x92 functional currencies. The Company hedges portion its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for months. help protect the net investment foreign operation from adverse changes foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the changes the carrying amounts these investments due fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. help protect against adverse fluctuations interest rates, the Company may enter into interest rate swaps, options, other instruments offset portion the changes income expense due fluctuations interest rates. The Company may also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign currency exchange exposures for variety reasons including, but not limited , accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. There can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements foreign currency exchange rates. The Company records all derivatives the Consolidated Balance Sheets fair value. The Company\x92 accounting treatment these instruments based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The effective portions cash flow hedges are recorded AOCI until the hedged item recognized earnings. The effective portions net investment hedges are recorded OCI part the cumulative translation adjustment. The ineffective portions cash flow hedges and net investment hedges are recorded other income and expense. Derivatives that are not designated hedging instruments are adjusted fair value through earnings the financial statement line item which the derivative relates. The Company had net deferred losses $ million and $ million associated with cash flow hedges, net taxes, recorded AOCI September , and September , , respectively. Deferred gains and losses associated with cash flow hedges foreign currency revenue are recognized component net sales the same period the related revenue recognized, and deferred gains and losses related cash flow hedges inventory purchases are recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Deferred gains and losses associated with cash flow hedges interest income expense are recognized component other income/(expense), net the same period the related income expense recognized. The Company\x92 hedged foreign currency transactions and hedged interest rate transactions September , are expected occur within months and five years, respectively. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent two-month time period. Deferred gains and losses AOCI associated with such derivative instruments are reclassified immediately into other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are reflected other income and expense unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. The Company did not recognize any significant net gains losses related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges during , and . The Company\x92 unrealized net gains and losses net investment hedges, included the cumulative translation adjustment account AOCI, were not significant September , and September , . The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness test net investment hedges are recorded other income and expense. The gain loss recognized other income and expense for foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated hedging instruments was not significant during , and , respectively. These amounts represent the net gain loss the derivative contracts and not include changes the related exposures, which generally offset portion the gain loss the derivative contracts. The following table shows the notional principal amounts the Company\x92 outstanding derivative instruments and credit risk amounts associated with outstanding unsettled derivative instruments September , and September , ( millions): Notional Principal Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Credit Risk Amounts Instruments designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , $ Interest rate contracts $ , $ $ $ Instruments not designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , $ The notional principal amounts for outstanding derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding and not represent the amount the Company\x92 exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amounts represent the Company\x92 gross exposure potential accounting loss derivative instruments that are outstanding unsettled all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency interest rates each respective date. The Company\x92 gross exposure these transactions may further mitigated collateral received from certain counterparties. The Company\x92 exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency and interest rates. Although the table above reflects the notional principal and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 derivative instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. The Company generally enters into master netting arrangements, which are designed reduce credit risk permitting net settlement transactions with the same counterparty. further limit credit risk, the Company generally enters into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral received posted when the net fair value certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities their gross fair values. September , and September , , the Company posted $ million and $ million, respectively, cash collateral related the derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements, which were recorded other current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company did not have any derivative instruments with credit-risk related contingent features that would require post additional collateral September , September , . The following tables show the Company\x92 derivative instruments gross fair value reflected the Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , ( millions): Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Interest rate contracts $ $ $ Derivative liabilities ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Derivative liabilities ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ ( ) The fair value derivative assets measured using Level fair value inputs and recorded other current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. ( ) The fair value derivative liabilities measured using Level fair value inputs and recorded accrued expenses the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following table shows the pre-tax effect the Company\x92 derivative instruments designated cash flow and net investment hedges the Consolidated Statements Operations for the years ended September , and September , ( millions): Gains/(Losses) Recognized OCI \x96 Effective Portion Gains/(Losses) Reclassified from AOCI into Net Income \x96 Effective Portion Gains/(Losses) Recognized \x96 Ineffective Portion and Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Testing September , September , September , ( ) September , ( ) Location September , September , Cash flow hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ $ ( ) $ $ Other income/ (expense), net $ ( ) $ ( ) Interest rate contracts ( ) Other income/ (expense), net Net investment hedges: Foreign exchange contracts ( ) Other income/ (expense), net Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Includes gains/(losses) reclassified from AOCI into net income for the effective portion cash flow hedges, which $ million, $ million and $( ) million were recognized within net sales, cost sales and other income/(expense), net, respectively, within the Consolidated Statement Operations for the year ended September , . ( ) Includes gains/(losses) reclassified from AOCI into income for the effective portion cash flow hedges, which $ million and $ million were recognized within net sales and cost sales, respectively, within the Consolidated Statement Operations for the year ended September , . Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company has considerable trade receivables outstanding with its third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, value-added resellers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company attempts limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers requiring third-party financing, loans leases support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. September , , the Company had two customers that represented % more total trade receivables, one which accounted for % and the other %. September , , the Company had two customers that represented % more total trade receivables, one which accounted for % and the other %. The Company\x92 cellular network carriers accounted for % and % trade receivables September , and September , , respectively. The additions and write-offs the Company\x92 allowance for doubtful accounts during , and were not significant. Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these components directly from suppliers. Vendor non-trade receivables from three the Company\x92 vendors accounted for %, % and % total non-trade receivables September , and vendor non-trade receivables from three the Company\x92 vendors accounted for %, % and % total non-trade receivables September , . The Company does not reflect the sale these components net sales and does not recognize any profits these sales until the related products are sold the Company, which time any profit recognized reduction cost sales. Note \x96 Consolidated Financial Statement Details The following tables show the Company\x92 consolidated balance sheet details September , and September , ( millions): Inventories Components $ $ Finished goods , Total inventories $ , $ Property, Plant and Equipment Land and buildings $ , $ , Machinery, equipment and internal-use software , , Leasehold improvements , , Gross property, plant and equipment , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Net property, plant and equipment $ , $ , Accrued Expenses Accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ , Accrued taxes , , Deferred margin component sales , , Accrued marketing and selling expenses , Accrued compensation and employee benefits Other current liabilities , , Total accrued expenses $ , $ , Non-Current Liabilities Deferred tax liabilities $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities , , Total other non-current liabilities $ , $ , Other Income and Expense The following table shows the detail other income and expense for , and ( millions): Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ Interest expense ( ) Other expense, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ , $ $ Note \x96 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company\x92 acquired intangible assets with definite useful lives primarily consist patents and licenses and are amortized over periods typically from three seven years. The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances September , and September , ( millions): Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Definite lived and amortizable acquired intangible assets $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Indefinite lived and non-amortizable trademarks Total acquired intangible assets $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , During and , the Company completed various business acquisitions. , the aggregate cash consideration, net cash acquired, was $ million, which $ million was allocated goodwill, $ million acquired intangible assets and $ million net liabilities assumed. , the aggregate cash consideration, net cash acquired, was $ million, which $ million was allocated goodwill, $ million acquired intangible assets and $ million net liabilities assumed. The Company\x92 gross carrying amount goodwill was $ billion and $ billion September , and September , , respectively. The Company did not have any goodwill impairment during , . Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. September , the remaining weighted-average amortization period for acquired intangible assets years. The expected annual amortization expense related acquired intangible assets September , , follows ( millions): $ , Thereafter Total $ , Note \x96 Income Taxes The provision for income taxes for , and , consisted the following ( millions): Federal: Current $ , $ , $ , Deferred , , , , , , State: Current , , Deferred ( ) ( ) , Foreign: Current , , Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pre-tax earnings $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. The Company\x92 consolidated financial statements provide for any related tax liability undistributed earnings that the Company does not intend indefinitely reinvested outside the . Substantially all the Company\x92 undistributed international earnings intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . were generated subsidiaries organized Ireland, which has statutory tax rate %. September , , . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ billion such earnings. The amount unrecognized deferred tax liability related these temporary differences estimated approximately $ billion. September , and September , , $ billion and $ billion, respectively, the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , and ) income before provision for income taxes for , and , follows ( millions): Computed expected tax $ , $ , $ , State taxes, net federal effect Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Domestic production activities deduction ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Company\x92 income taxes payable have been reduced the tax benefits from employee stock plan awards. For stock options, the Company receives income tax benefit calculated the tax effect the difference between the fair market value the stock issued the time the exercise and the exercise price. For RSUs, the Company receives income tax benefit upon the award\x92 vesting equal the tax effect the underlying stock\x92 fair market value. The Company had net excess tax benefits from equity awards $ million, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively, which were reflected increases common stock. September , and September , , the significant components the Company\x92 deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Deferred tax assets: Accrued liabilities and other reserves $ , $ , Deferred revenue , , Basis capital assets and investments , Share-based compensation Other , Total deferred tax assets , , Less valuation allowance Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance , , Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings foreign subsidiaries , , Other Total deferred tax liabilities , , Net deferred tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. Uncertain Tax Positions Tax positions are evaluated two-step process. The Company first determines whether more likely than not that tax position will sustained upon examination. tax position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold then measured determine the amount benefit recognize the financial statements. The tax position measured the largest amount benefit that greater than % likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company classifies gross interest and penalties and unrecognized tax benefits that are not expected result payment receipt cash within one year non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, which $ billion, recognized, would affect the Company\x92 effective tax rate. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, which $ million, recognized, would affect the Company\x92 effective tax rate. The aggregate changes the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, for , and , follows ( millions): Beginning Balance $ , $ , $ Increases related tax positions taken during prior year Decreases related tax positions taken during prior year ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases related tax positions taken during the current year Decreases related settlements with taxing authorities ( ) ( ) Decreases related expiration statute limitations ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending Balance $ , $ , $ , The Company includes interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes. September , and September , , the total amount gross interest and penalties accrued was $ million and $ million, respectively, which classified non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. connection with tax matters, the Company recognized interest and penalty expense , and $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. The Company subject taxation and files income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. For . federal income tax purposes, all years prior are closed. The Internal Revenue Service (the \x93IRS\x94) has completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS currently examining the years through . addition, the Company also subject audits state, local and foreign tax authorities. major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent and , respectively, generally remain open and could subject examination the taxing authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Although timing the resolution and closure audits not certain, the Company believes reasonably possible that tax audit resolutions could reduce its unrecognized tax benefits between $ million and $ million the next months. Note \x96 Long-Term Debt May , the Company issued floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate principal amount $ billion (collectively the \x93Notes\x94). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations, and interest payable arrears, quarterly for the floating-rate notes and semi-annually for the fixed-rate notes. The principal amounts and associated interest rates the Notes September , , are follows: Amount ( millions) Effective Rate Floating-rate notes, due $ , % Floating-rate notes, due , % Fixed-rate % notes due , % Fixed-rate % notes due , % Fixed-rate % notes due , % Fixed-rate % notes due , % Total $ , The floating-rate notes due and bear interest the three-month London InterBank Offered Rate (\x93LIBOR\x94) plus % and %, respectively. manage the risk fluctuations interest rates associated with the floating-rate notes, the Company entered into interest rate swaps with aggregate notional amount $ billion designated cash flow hedges its floating-rate notes. These hedges effectively convert the floating interest rate the floating-rate notes fixed interest rate. The gains and losses related changes the fair value the interest rate swaps are recorded OCI with portion reclassified interest expense each period offset changes interest rates the floating-rate notes. The effective rates for the Notes include the interest the Notes, amortization the discount and, applicable, adjustments related hedging. The Company recognized $ million interest expense for the year ended September , . September , , the aggregate unamortized discount for the Company\x92 Notes was $ million. Future principal payments for the Company\x92 Notes September , , are follows ( millions): $ , , Thereafter , Total $ , September , , the fair value the Company\x92 Notes, based Level inputs, was $ billion. Note \x96 Shareholders\x92 Equity Preferred Stock The Company has five million shares authorized preferred stock, none which issued outstanding. Under the terms the Company\x92 Restated Articles Incorporation, the Board Directors authorized determine alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions the Company\x92 authorized but unissued shares preferred stock. Dividend and Stock Repurchase Program The Company declared and paid cash dividends per common share during the periods presented follows: Dividends Per Share Amount ( millions) First quarter $ $ , Second quarter $ , Third quarter $ , Fourth quarter $ , $ , The Company paid cash dividends $ per share, totaling $ billion, during the fourth quarter . Future dividends are subject declaration the Board Directors. , the Company\x92 Board Directors authorized program repurchase $ billion the Company\x92 common stock beginning . April , the Company\x92 Board Directors increased the share repurchase program authorization from $ billion $ billion, which $ billion had been utilized September , . The Company\x92 share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under the program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the \x93Exchange Act\x94). August , the Company entered into accelerated share repurchase arrangement (\x93ASR\x94) with financial institution purchase $ billion the Company\x92 common stock . the first quarter , million shares were initially delivered the Company. April , the purchase period for the ASR ended and additional million shares were delivered the Company. total, million shares were delivered under the ASR average repurchase price $ per share. The shares were retired the quarters they were delivered, and the -front payment $ billion was accounted for reduction shareholders\x92 equity the Company\x92 Consolidated Balance Sheet the first quarter . April , the Company entered into new ASR program with two financial institutions purchase $ billion the Company\x92 common stock. exchange for -front payments totaling $ billion, the financial institutions committed deliver shares during the ASR\x92 purchase periods, which will end during . The total number shares ultimately delivered, and therefore the average price paid per share, will determined the end the applicable purchase period based the volume weighted average price the Company\x92 stock during that period. During the third quarter , million shares were initially delivered the Company and retired. This does not represent the final number shares delivered under the ASR. The -front payments $ billion were accounted for reduction shareholders\x92 equity the Company\x92 Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company reflected the ASRs repurchase common stock for purposes calculating earnings per share and forward contracts indexed its own common stock. The forward contracts met all the applicable criteria for equity classification, and, therefore, were not accounted for derivative instruments. During , the Company repurchased million shares its common stock the open market average price $ per share for total $ billion. These shares were retired upon repurchase. Note \x96 Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, and gains and losses that under GAAP are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges, and unrealized gains and losses marketable securities classified available-for-sale. The following table shows the components AOCI, net taxes, September , and September , ( millions): Cumulative foreign currency translation $ ( ) $ Net unrecognized gains losses derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains losses marketable securities ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) $ ( ) $ Note \x96 Benefit Plans Stock Plans Employee Stock Plan The Employee Stock Plan (the \x93 Plan\x94) shareholder approved plan that provides for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, RSUs, stock appreciation rights, stock purchase rights and performance-based awards. Options granted under the Plan generally expire seven ten years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period four years, based continued employment, with either annual, semi-annual quarterly vesting. RSUs granted under the Plan generally vest over two four years, based continued employment and are settled upon vesting shares the Company\x92 common stock one-for-one basis. Each share issued with respect award granted under the Plan (other than stock option stock appreciation right) reduces the number shares available for grant under the plan two shares, whereas shares issued respect option stock appreciation right count against the number shares available for grant one-for-one basis. All RSUs, other than RSUs held the Chief Executive Officer, granted under the Plan have dividend equivalent rights (\x93DER\x94), which entitle holders RSUs the same dividend value per share holders common stock. DER are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the corresponding unvested RSUs. DER are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Plan. Director Stock Plan The Director Stock Plan (the \x93Director Plan\x94) shareholder approved plan that ( ) permits the Company grant awards RSUs stock options the Company\x92 non-employee directors, ( ) provides for automatic initial grants RSUs upon non-employee director joining the Board Directors and automatic annual grants RSUs each annual meeting shareholders, and (iii) permits the Board Directors prospectively change the relative mixture stock options and RSUs for the initial and annual award grants and the methodology for determining the number shares the Company\x92 common stock subject these grants without shareholder approval. Each share issued with respect RSUs granted under the Director Plan reduces the number shares available for grant under the plan two shares. The Director Plan expires November , . All RSUs granted under the Director Plan are entitled DER. September , , approximately , shares were reserved for future issuance under the Director Plan. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans During the fourth quarter , executive officers Timothy . Cook, Peter Oppenheimer, . Bruce Sewell, Philip . Schiller, Daniel Riccio and Jeffrey . Williams and director William . Campbell had equity trading plans place accordance with Rule 10b5- ( )( ) under the Exchange Act. equity trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company\x92 stock, including shares acquired pursuant the Company\x92 employee and director equity plans. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the \x93Purchase Plan\x94) shareholder approved plan under which substantially all employees may purchase the Company\x92 common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the stock the beginning the end six-month offering periods. employee\x92 payroll deductions under the Purchase Plan are limited % the employee\x92 compensation and employees may not purchase more than $ , stock during any calendar year. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. ( ) Plan The Company\x92 ( ) Plan (the \x93 ( ) Plan\x94) deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the ( ) Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the IRS annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\x92 contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\x92 eligible earnings. The Company\x92 matching contributions the ( ) Plan were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Restricted Stock Units summary the Company\x92 RSU activity and related information for , and , follows: Number RSUs ( thousands) Weighted- Average Grant Date Fair Value Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( millions) Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs cancelled ( ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs cancelled ( ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs cancelled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ $ , The fair value the respective vesting dates RSUs was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. The majority RSUs that vested , and were net-share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the employees\x92 minimum statutory obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld were approximately million, million and million for , and , respectively, and were based the value the RSUs their respective vesting dates determined the Company\x92 closing stock price. Total payments for the employees\x92 tax obligations taxing authorities were $ billion, $ billion and $ million , and , respectively, and are reflected financing activity within the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows. These net-share settlements had the effect share repurchases the Company they reduced and retired the number shares that would have otherwise been issued result the vesting and did not represent expense the Company. Stock Options summary the Company\x92 stock option activity and related information for , and , follows: Outstanding Options Number Options ( thousands) Weighted- Average Exercise Price Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Term ( years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( millions) Balance September , , $ Options granted $ Options cancelled ( ) $ Options exercised ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ Options assumed $ Options cancelled ( ) $ Options exercised ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ Options granted $ Options assumed $ Options cancelled ( ) $ Options exercised ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ $ , Exercisable September , , $ $ , Expected vest after September , $ $ Aggregate intrinsic value represents the value the Company\x92 closing stock price the last trading day the period excess the weighted-average exercise price multiplied the number options outstanding exercisable. Total intrinsic value options time exercise was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. Share-based Compensation The Company granted , and , stock options during and , respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value per share stock options granted during and was $ and $ , respectively. The Company did not grant any stock options during . During and , conjunction with certain business combinations, the Company assumed , and , stock options, respectively, which had weighted-average fair value per share $ and $ , respectively. The Company did not assume any stock options during . The weighted-average fair value stock purchase rights per share was $ , $ and $ during , and , respectively. The following table shows summary the share-based compensation expense included the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and ( millions): Cost sales $ $ $ Research and development Selling, general and administrative Total share-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , The income tax benefit related share-based compensation expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. September , , the total unrecognized compensation cost related outstanding stock options and RSUs was $ billion, which the Company expects recognize over weighted-average period years. Note \x96 Commitments and Contingencies Accrued Warranty and Indemnification The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its pre-existing warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. The following table shows changes the Company\x92 accrued warranties and related costs for , and ( millions): Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ , $ Cost warranty claims ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accruals for product warranty , , , Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ , $ , The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would materially adversely affect its financial condition operating results. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs related indemnification either September , September , . The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage reduce its exposure such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not been material. Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, number components are currently obtained from single limited sources. addition, the Company competes for various components with other participants the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant pricing fluctuations that can materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company\x92 supply components for new existing product were delayed constrained, outsourcing partner delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also materially adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers concentrated the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. The Company has entered into various agreements for the supply components; however, there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products are manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia. significant concentration this manufacturing currently performed small number outsourcing partners, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers components and manufacturers for many the Company\x92 products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods days. Other Off-Balance Sheet Commitments Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding years and generally provide renewal options for terms not exceeding five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\x92 total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion, which $ billion related leases for retail space. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): $ Thereafter , Total minimum lease payments $ , Other Commitments September , , the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments $ billion. addition the off-balance sheet commitments mentioned above, the Company had outstanding obligations $ billion September , , which consisted mainly commitments acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and commitments related advertising, research and development, Internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. Contingencies The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and that have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies. However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Apple Inc. . Samsung Electronics ., Ltd, . August , , jury returned verdict awarding the Company $ billion its lawsuit against Samsung Electronics ., Ltd and affiliated parties the United States District Court, Northern District California, San Jose Division. March , , the District Court upheld $ million the jury\x92 award and ordered new trial the remainder. Because the award subject entry final judgment, partial -trial and appeal, the Company has not recognized the award its results operations. VirnetX, Inc. . Apple Inc. . August , , VirnetX, Inc. filed action against the Company alleging that certain its products infringed four patents relating network communications technology. November , , jury returned verdict against the Company, and awarded damages $ million. The Company challenging the verdict, believes has valid defenses and has not recorded loss accrual this time. Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan, Rest Asia Pacific and Retail operations. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. The Greater China segment includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Rest Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian countries, other than those countries included the Company\x92 other operating segments. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores countries, including the . The results the Company\x92 geographic segments not include results the Retail segment. Each operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. The accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies.\x94 The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location customers, while Retail segment net sales are based sales through the Company\x92 retail stores. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Advertising expenses are generally included the geographic segment which the expenditures are incurred. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses such research and development, corporate marketing expenses, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, various nonrecurring charges, and other separately managed general and administrative costs and certain manufacturing period expenses. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets include receivables and inventories, and for the Retail segment also includes capital assets. Segment assets exclude corporate assets, such cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term marketable securities, vendor non-trade receivables, other long-term investments, manufacturing and corporate facilities, product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets. Except for the Retail segment, capital asset purchases for long-lived assets are not reported management segment and therefore are excluded from the geographic segment assets and instead included corporate assets. Cash payments for capital asset purchases the Retail segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The Company\x92 total depreciation and amortization was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively, which $ million, $ million and $ million was related the Retail segment the respective years. Depreciation and amortization segment assets included the geographic segments was not significant. The following table shows information operating segment for , and ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Greater China: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Japan: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Rest Asia Pacific: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Retail: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , reconciliation the Company\x92 segment operating income the consolidated financial statements for , and , follows ( millions): Segment operating income $ , $ , $ , Other corporate expenses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , The following table shows total assets segment and reconciliation the consolidated financial statements September , and September , ( millions): Segment assets: Americas $ , $ , Europe , , Greater China , , Japan , , Rest Asia-Pacific Retail , , Total segment assets , , Corporate assets , , Total assets $ , $ , The . and China were the only countries that accounted for more than % the Company\x92 net sales , and . There was single customer that accounted for more than % net sales , . Net sales for , and and long-lived assets September , and September , are follows ( millions): Net sales: . $ , $ , $ , China ( ) , , , Other countries , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Long-lived assets: . $ , $ , China ( ) , , Other countries , , Total long-lived assets $ , $ , ( ) China includes Hong Kong. Long-lived assets located China consist primarily product tooling and manufacturing process equipment and assets related retail stores and related infrastructure. Information regarding net sales product for , and , follows ( millions): Net Sales Product: iPhone ( ) $ , $ , $ , iPad ( ) , , , Mac ( ) , , , iPod ( ) , , , iTunes, Software and Services ( ) , , , Accessories ( ) , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes deferrals and amortization related non-software services and software upgrade rights. ( ) Includes revenue from sales the iTunes Store, the App Store, the Mac App Store, and the iBooks Store, and revenue from sales AppleCare, licensing and other services. ( ) Includes sales hardware peripherals and Apple-branded and third-party accessories for iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod. Note \x96 Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) The following tables show summary the Company\x92 quarterly financial information for each the four quarters and ( millions, except per share amounts): Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share ( ): Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share ( ): Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, shareholders\x92 equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Apple Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited Apple Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (\x93the COSO criteria\x94). Apple Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements Apple Inc. and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\x92 management, the Company\x92 principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\x92 disclosure controls and procedures defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (\x93Exchange Act\x94) were effective September , provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company\x92 management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations Over Internal Controls The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94). The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company\x92 assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP, and that the Company\x92 receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company\x92 management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company\x92 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company\x92 internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company\x92 management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted assessment the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework). Based the Company\x92 assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective September , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP. The Company\x92 independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting, which appears Part , Item this Form - . Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter , which were identified connection with management\x92 evaluation required paragraph ( ) rules 13a- and 15d- under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this Item set forth under the headings \x93Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance\x94 and \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94) within days after September , connection with the solicitation proxies for the Company\x92 annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this Item set forth under the heading \x93Executive Compensation\x94 and under the subheadings \x93Board Oversight Risk Management,\x94 \x93Compensation Directors,\x94 \x93Director Compensation- \x94 and \x93Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation\x94 under the heading \x93Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this Item set forth under the headings \x93Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management\x94 and \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this Item set forth under the heading \x93Review, Approval Ratification Transactions with Related Persons\x94 and under the subheading \x93Board Committees\x94 under the heading \x93Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accounting Fees and Services The information required this Item set forth under the subheadings \x93Fees Paid Auditors\x94 and \x93Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm\x94 under the proposal \x93Ratification Appointment Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) Documents filed part this report ( ) All financial statements Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page ( ) Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included this Form - . ( ) Exhibits required Item Regulation - The information required this Section ( )( ) Item set forth the exhibit index that follows the Signatures page this Form - . ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}