{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Microsoft Corporation (the \x93Company\x94 \x93Microsoft\x94) was founded partnership and incorporated . Microsoft\x92 mission enable people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential, and the Company\x92 vision empowering people through great software\x97any time, any place, and any device. Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports wide range software products for multitude computing devices. Microsoft software products include scalable operating systems for servers, personal computers (PCs), and intelligent devices; server applications for client server environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; and software development tools. During fiscal , Microsoft launched Xbox, the Company\x92 next-generation video game system. The Company\x92 online efforts include the MSN network Internet products and services and alliances with companies involved with broadband access and various forms digital interactivity. Microsoft licenses consumer software programs; sells hardware devices; provides consulting services; and trains and certifies system integrators and developers. Microsoft also researches and develops advanced technologies for future software products. significant portion the Company\x92 focus Microsoft\x92 NET architecture. Using common industry standards based XML, universal language for describing and exchanging data, the Company\x92 goal enable seamless sharing information across many platforms and programming languages, and over the Internet, with XML Web services. addition, Microsoft has embarked long-term initiative called Trustworthy Computing, which aims bring enhanced level security, privacy, reliability, and business integrity computer systems. PRODUCTS During fiscal , Microsoft had four operating segments based its product and service offerings: Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services; Consumer Software, Services, and Devices; Consumer Commerce Investments; and Other. See Note the Notes Financial Statements for financial information regarding segment reporting. DESKTOP AND ENTERPRISE SOFTWARE AND SERVICES Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services includes Desktop Applications; Desktop Platforms; and Enterprise Software and Services. For segment reporting purposes, Desktop Applications includes revenue from Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Visio; client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server and Windows Server, Exchange, and BackOffice; Microsoft Great Plains; and bCentral. Desktop Platforms includes revenue from Windows Professional and Home; Windows Professional; Windows Workstation; Windows Millennium Edition; Windows ; and other desktop operating systems. Enterprise Software and Services includes Server Platforms; Server Applications; Developer Tools and Services; and Enterprise Services. DESKTOP APPLICATIONS Microsoft Office. Microsoft Office software product featuring commonly used desktop functionality. The product based upon document-centric concept, with common commands and extensive use cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office available several versions for the Windows and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Office , the latest Microsoft Office release, helps users complete common business tasks, including word processing, electronic mail ( -mail), presentations, and data management, with features like smart tags, task panes, integrated -mail, document recovery, and send for review. The various versions Microsoft Office include the word processor Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, Microsoft Outlook personal information management and -mail communication client, Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program, and may include Microsoft Access database management application, Microsoft FrontPage Web site creation and management tool, and Microsoft Publisher business desktop publishing program. Most these applications are also licensed separately. Other Desktop Application Products. The Company also offers other stand-alone desktop application products. Microsoft Project project management program for scheduling, organizing, and analyzing tasks, deadlines, and resources. Visio diagramming program that helps people visualize and communicate ideas, information, and systems. Client Access Licenses. client access license gives its holder the legal right access computer running Microsoft server product and the services supported the server using client computer. Microsoft Great Plains. Microsoft Great Plains offers range integrated business and accounting products, including Dynamics, Solomon, and eEnterprise. Dynamics provides Internet-ready accounting and business management capabilities for small- mid-sized companies. Solomon offers full range -business and accounting applications for small- mid-sized companies. eEnterprise supports mid-sized larger companies providing collaborative environment for information management and sharing. / MSFT FORM - Part Item bCentral. Microsoft\x92 small businesses portal, bCentral, includes Site Manager, Web site management and hosting service which empowers small businesses easily create and manage their own Web sites, while allowing for higher-end editing Microsoft FrontPage, and LinkExchange, which provides services small businesses and Web site owners increase their online traffic and sales with free advertising banner ads their site exchange for placing ads other network sites. DESKTOP PLATFORMS Windows . Microsoft launched Windows October . Windows extends the personal computing experience uniting PCs, devices, and services, while enhancing reliability, security, and performance. Windows Home Edition designed for individuals families and includes experiences for digital photo, music, video, home networking, and communications. Windows Professional includes all the features Home Edition, plus remote access, security, performance, manageability, and multilingual features help users improve productivity and connectivity. Windows Professional. The successor Windows Workstation, Windows Professional operating system combines features create mainstream operating system for desktop and notebook computing all organizations. Windows Professional contains the enhanced business features Windows such Plug and Play, easy- -use user interface, and power management and integrates the strengths Windows Workstation including standards-based security, manageability, and reliability. Windows Workstation. fully integrated, multitasking -bit operating system, Windows Workstation provides improved security features, robustness, and portability. Windows Workstation combines the Windows operating system interface and usability features with the reliability and security Windows for the business environment. Windows Millennium Edition. Windows Millennium Edition ( ) operating system designed specifically for home users, including capabilities manage digital photos and music, work with video, create home network, and communicate with other consumers. Windows . The successor Windows , Windows personal computer operating system that provides Web-oriented user interface and better system performance along with easier system diagnostics and maintenance. Windows supports graphics, sound, and multimedia technologies and provides the ability easily add and remove peripheral devices and support for Universal Serial Bus (USB). ENTERPRISE SOFTWARE AND SERVICES Windows Server, Advanced Server, and Datacenter Server. Windows Server multipurpose network operating system for businesses all sizes. Windows Advanced Server operating system ideal for -commerce and line- -business applications and provides enhanced performance and scalability through symmetric multiprocessing (SMP) and extended memory support. Windows Datacenter Server operating system built for large-scale line- -business and enterprise backend usage and supports server consolidation and enhanced scalability. Microsoft NET Enterprise Servers. Microsoft NET Enterprise Servers include Microsoft SQL Server, Exchange Server, Application Center, BizTalk Server, Commerce Server, Content Management Server, Host Integration Server, Internet Security and Acceleration Server, Microsoft Operations Manager, Mobile Information Server, and SharePoint Portal Server. SQL Server comprehensive data management and analysis platform that enables rapid delivery, dependable performance and secure operation connected applications. Exchange Server messaging and collaboration server that provides -mail, group scheduling, task management, contact management and document routing capabilities. Application Center Microsoft\x92 deployment and management tool for high-availability Web applications built the Microsoft Windows operating system. BizTalk Server enables companies rapidly build and deploy integrated business processes within their organizations and with partners. Commerce Server provides comprehensive set features for building scalable, user-centric, business- -consumer, and business- -business -commerce sites. Content Management Server the enterprise Web content management system that enables companies quickly and efficiently build, deploy, and maintain highly dynamic Internet, intranet, and extranet Web sites. Host Integration Server extends Microsoft Windows applications other systems providing application, data, and network integration. Internet Security and Acceleration Server provides secure, fast, and manageable Internet connectivity. integrates extensible, multilayer enterprise firewall and scalable high-performance Web cache. Microsoft Operations Manager delivers enterprise-class solutions for operations management Windows , the Microsoft Active Directory service, and other component services Windows , well other Microsoft NET Enterprise Server applications such Exchange and SQL Server. Mobile Information Server mobile-enables the enterprise, extending the reach Microsoft NET Enterprise applications, enterprise data, and intranet content the mobile user. SharePoint Portal Server extends the capabilities Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office offering information workers powerful new way easily organize, find, and share information. combines the ability easily create corporate Web portals with document management, content searching, and team collaboration features. / MSFT FORM - Part Item Other Servers. Small Business Server the flexible network solution designed help businesses with computers. Systems Management Server helps centrally manage the distributed environment with integrated features, including hardware inventory, software inventory and metering, software distribution and installation, and remote troubleshooting tools. Developer Tools and Services. Software development tools and computer languages allow software developers write programs particular computer language and translate programs into binary machine-readable set commands that activate and instruct various hardware devices. The Company develops and markets number software development environments and language compilers. February , Microsoft launched Visual Studio NET, comprehensive tool for rapidly building and deploying XML Web services and applications. Visual Studio NET provides software developers with powerful tools rapidly design broad-reach Web applications for any device and any platform, and build powerful Windows applications. Microsoft Visual ++ the Company\x92 development system for Windows-based application development. Microsoft Visual # offers beginning and intermediate developers with ++ Java experience modern language and robust development environment for creating XML Web services and Microsoft NET-based applications for Windows and the Web. The Microsoft Visual Basic development system provides easy access wide variety data sources integrating the Microsoft Access database engine and the ability take advantage investments commercial applications. The Microsoft Visual InterDev development system includes integrated, team-based development tools for building Web-based applications based HTML, Script, and components written any language. Developers can subscribe the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN) information service and receive periodic updates via -ROMs, magazines, and several online information services. addition, Microsoft receives certification fees through the Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) program, program that provides credentials for those who have demonstrated -depth knowledge least one Microsoft product. Enterprise Services. Microsoft Enterprise Services assist organizations with every stage technology planning, building, deployment, and support. Specializing solutions for the enterprise, Microsoft offers full range consulting services for advance technology requirements, including custom solutions services, enterprise application planning, architecture and design services, and proof- -concept services. The Company provides product support services aligned customer segments, partner segments, and communities. CONSUMER SOFTWARE, SERVICES, AND DEVICES Consumer Software, Services, and Devices includes Xbox video game system, MSN Internet Access, MSN Network Services, and Online Games, Learning and Productivity Software, Mobility, and Embedded Systems. Xbox. Microsoft Xbox, released fiscal , Microsoft\x92 next-generation video game console system that delivers high quality graphics and audio gameplay experiences. For information Xbox manufacturing, see \x93Manufacturing\x94 below. Games for the Xbox are developed Microsoft Game Studios, such Halo and Project Gotham Racing, and third-party game development partners, such Tecmo\x92 Dead Alive . Xbox Live, online service available owners Xbox systems, expected launched the second quarter fiscal and will allow online game play among users online-enabled Xbox games. MSN Internet Access. MSN Internet access Microsoft\x92 service for accessing the Web and experiencing wide range rich online services and content. MSN Internet access subscribers can access their account from multiple sources, including computer, television, Internet appliances, and Personal Data Assistants. MSN Network Services. The MSN network provides services, content and advertising the Internet, encompassing MSN Search, Messenger, eShop, Hotmail, Money, and Music, well other services and content. MSN Search makes Web searches more useful providing users with the most relevant results for the most popular search queries the Web. MSN Messenger free Internet messaging service that enables users see when others are online and exchange instant messages with them. MSN eShop one-stop online shopping resource. MSN Hotmail the world\x92 leading free Web-based -mail service. MSN Money complete online personal financial service that combines finance tools and content from Microsoft with exclusive investment news and analysis from CNBC. MSN Music provides consumers with one place online find old favorites, well discover new music, and delivers high quality listening experience. and Online Games. The Company offers line entertainment products from classic software games online games, simulations, sport products, and strategy games. Microsoft Flight Simulator popular aircraft flight simulation product. Other games include Age Empires, Dungeon Siege, MechWarrior, Microsoft Links, Train Simulator, Zoo Tycoon, and other action and sports titles. Zone com gaming community the Internet allowing multiplayer gaming competitions Microsoft\x92 popular -ROM games and classic card, board, and puzzle games. Learning and Productivity Software. Learning titles include Microsoft Encarta Reference Library, complete research and reference source with multimedia encyclopedia database with interactive information, interactive world atlas with three-dimensional maps, world English dictionary, Encarta Africana, Researcher, and online version with monthly updates. Titles for children include series products based the popular children\x92 book and television series, Scholastic\x92 The Magic School Bus. Microsoft\x92 productivity offerings include Microsoft Works, integrated software program that contains basic word processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that allows the easy exchange information from one tool another. Microsoft Picture ! brand products includes Picture ! Photo, with photo editing tools and wizards easily capture, correct and create photos, and Picture ! Publishing, used create greeting cards and other print and Web based products. Microsoft Money offers leading tools and resources conduct wide range financial activities. The / MSFT FORM - Part Item Works Suite provides comprehensive collection software, including Microsoft Works, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Money, Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia, Microsoft Picture ! Photo, and Microsoft Streets & Trips. Mobility and Embedded Systems. Microsoft develops number software platforms for mobile computing. Products such Pocket , Pocket Phone Edition, and Microsoft Windows Powered Smartphone are designed enable variety mobile scenarios. Microsoft\x92 embedded offerings include two embedded operating systems, Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Windows Embedded, well device specific solutions. Microsoft Windows , robust real-time embedded operating system, targeted mobile -bit devices. Microsoft Windows Embedded, based the desktop and server versions Microsoft\x92 operating systems, targeted higher-end embedded products and devices. Both embedded operating systems offer integrated tool sets enable embedded system developers quickly create sophisticated embedded device and application solutions. Microsoft Mobile Information Server scalable and reliable mobile applications server that provides enterprise customers and mobile operators with rich platform for extending NET Enterprise application and securely delivering real-time, wireless data mobile devices. CONSUMER COMMERCE INVESTMENTS Consumer Commerce Investments include the HomeAdvisor online real estate service and the CarPoint online automotive service. HomeAdvisor online real estate service. The HomeAdvisor online real estate service complete guide the home-buying process and provides comprehensive tools for finding homes and loans the Internet. The service includes customized search features, worksheets and calculators, and editorial content and home-buying advice. CarPoint online automotive service. The CarPoint online automotive service the leading online automotive marketplace, visited more than million consumers each month. With details more than , car models and , used vehicles, users can research and compare cars virtually every make and model, identify local dealers, and receive instructions for post-purchase service and maintenance. Expedia, Inc. Expedia was included the Consumer Commerce Investments segment until Microsoft sold its interest Expedia USA Networks, Inc. February . Expedia, Inc. operates Expedia com, leading online travel service. Expedia com provides air, car, and hotel booking, vacation package and cruise offerings, destination information, and mapping. OTHER Hardware. The Hardware Group develops and markets several accessories including the Microsoft IntelliMouse family hand-held pointing devices using the IntelliEye optical technology. Hardware also markets several types keyboards including the Microsoft Natural Keyboard, ergonomically designed keyboard, the Internet Keyboard featuring two USB ports and Internet hot keys, and new Wireless Desktop product including wireless keyboard and mouse. Also included the Hardware Group\x92 portfolio devices are SideWinder game controllers and force feedback joysticks with realistic performance technology use with games. Microsoft Press. Microsoft Press offers comprehensive learning and training resources help new users, power users, and professionals get the most from Microsoft technology through books, CDs, self-paced training kits, and videos that are created accommodate different learning styles and preferences. Microsoft Press books are authored professional and technical writers, both Microsoft employees and independent authors. SEGMENT REPORTING fiscal , the Company will begin reporting the following operating segments: Client; Information Worker; MSN; Home and Entertainment; Mobility; Server and Tools; and Business Solutions. These changes are designed provide comprehensive end- -end financial view Microsoft\x92 key businesses; promote better alignment strategies and objectives between development, sales, marketing, and services organizations; provide for more timely and rational allocation development, sales, and marketing resources within businesses; and focus strategic planning efforts key objectives and initiatives and give business owners more autonomy detailed planning. EQUITY METHOD INVESTMENTS The Company has entered into joint venture arrangements take advantage creative talent and content from other organizations. For example, Microsoft owns percent MSNBC Cable ., -hour cable news and information channel, and percent MSNBC Interactive News ., interactive online news service. National Broadcasting Company (NBC) owns the remaining percent these two joint ventures. / MSFT FORM - Part Item PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years. accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, the amortization goodwill was discontinued fiscal . The amount goodwill amortization included research and development expense fiscal years and was $ million and $ million, respectively. The Company plans continue significant expenditures for research and product development. Most the Company\x92 software products are developed internally. The Company also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees third-party development and localization certain products. Internal development allows Microsoft maintain closer technical control over its products and gives the Company the freedom designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. Microsoft works devising innovative solutions computer science problems, such making computers easier use, designing software for the next generation hardware, improving the software design process, and investigating the mathematical underpinnings computer science. The Company has created substantial body proprietary development tools and has evolved development methodologies for creating and enhancing its products. These tools and methodologies are also designed simplify product\x92 portability among different operating systems, microprocessors, computing devices. Product documentation generally created internally. The Company strives become informed the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, Microsoft provides software vendors range development, training, testing resources, and guidelines for developing applications. The software industry characterized rapid technological change, which requires constant attention computing technology trends, shifting consumer demand, and rapid product innovation. The pace change accelerating the computing needs our customers move beyond the toward intelligent devices and appliances, such the Tablet . Tablet PCs extend the power laptop computers running Windows with enhanced capabilities such handwriting and speech input. The Company believes that making its products trustworthy critical their success and has launched company-wide effort called Trustworthy Computing. Trustworthy Computing has four pillars: reliability, security, privacy, and business integrity. Reliability means that computer system dependable, available when needed, and performs expected and appropriate levels. Security means that system resilient attack, and that the confidentiality, integrity and availability both the system and its data are protected. Privacy means that individuals have the ability control data about themselves and that those using such data faithfully adhere fair information principles. Business integrity, this context, about being responsible customers and helping them find appropriate solutions for their business issues, addressing problems with products services, and being open interactions with customers. While the Company continuing invest significantly delivering new capabilities that customers ask for, Microsoft making security improvements high priority. Microsoft NET Microsoft\x92 platform for XML Web services. XML Web services allow applications communicate and share data over the Internet intranet, regardless operating system programming language. The Microsoft NET platform includes comprehensive family products, built XML and other Internet industry standards, which provide for each aspect developing, managing, using, and experiencing XML Web services. There are five areas where Microsoft building the NET platform today: Tools, Servers, XML Web Services, Clients, and NET Experiences. the Tools area, Visual Studio NET and the Microsoft NET framework supply complete solution for developers build, deploy, and run XML Web services. They maximize the performance, reliability, and security XML Web services. The NET Enterprise Servers, including the Windows Server family, make Microsoft NET\x92 server infrastructure for deploying, managing, and orchestrating XML Web services. Designed with mission-critical performance mind, they provide enterprises with the agility they need integrate their systems, applications, and partners through XML Web services, and the flexibility adapt changing business requirements. Clients are PCs, laptops, workstations, phones, handheld computers, Tablet PCs, game consoles, and other smart devices. These smart devices use software that supports XML Web services, which enable users access their data regardless the location, type, and number clients used. Smart clients and devices leverage XML Web services create NET experiences that allow users access information across the Internet and from stand-alone applications integrated way. best serve the needs users around the world, Microsoft \x93localizes\x94 many its products reflect local languages and conventions and improve the quality and usability the product international markets. Localizing product might require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Japanese versions, for example, all user messages and documentation are Japanese with monetary references the Japanese yen. Various Microsoft products have been localized into more than languages. MANUFACTURING Microsoft contracts out most its manufacturing activities third parties. Outside manufacturers produce the Xbox, various retail software packaged products, and hardware. There are other custom manufacturers Microsoft could use the event outsourced manufacturing becomes unavailable from current vendors. The Company generally has multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components and often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. The graphics processing unit (GPU) for the Xbox was custom designed and produced NVIDIA Corporation. Quality control tests are performed purchased parts, -ROMs, and other products. / MSFT FORM - Part Item OPERATIONS The Company has regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and the Greater Seattle area. The regional centers support all operations, including information processing, vendor management and logistics geographical regions. The regional center Dublin, Ireland supports the European, African, and Middle East regions, the center Singapore supports the Asia Pacific region, and the center the Greater Seattle area supports North and South America. Microsoft Licensing, Inc. (MSLI), wholly-owned subsidiary Reno, Nevada, manages the Company\x92 original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and certain organizational licensing operations. DISTRIBUTION, SALES AND MARKETING Microsoft distributes its products primarily through the following channels: OEM; volume licensing; online services and products; and distributors and retailers. fiscal , Microsoft had three major geographic sales and marketing regions: the South Pacific and Americas Region; the Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region; and the Asia Region. Beginning with fiscal , the Company\x92 geographic sales and marketing organization was modified remove the South Pacific region from the Americas organization, and combine with Asia. Sales volume licenses and packaged software products via these channels are primarily distributors and resellers. OEM. Microsoft operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right distribute copies the Company\x92 products with their computing devices, principally PCs. The Company also markets and licenses certain server operating systems, desktop applications, hardware devices, and consumer software programs OEMs under similar arrangements. almost all cases, the products are distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering one more its products with virtually all the major OEMs, including Acer, Actebis, Dell, eMachines, Fujitsu, Fujitsu Siemens Computers, Gateway, , IBM, NEC, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba. substantial amount OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume customized vendors. Volume Licensing. The Microsoft Enterprise Agreement program licensing program designed provide flexible licensing and service solution tailored customers making long-term licensing commitment. The agreements are designed simplify license administration, payment terms, and the contract process. The Microsoft Select program offers flexible software acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially customized meet the needs large multinational organizations. Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with large account resellers. The Microsoft Open program licensing program that targeted for small- and medium-sized organizations. available through the reseller channel and offers discounts based initial purchase volumes. The Microsoft Enterprise Agreement and Software Assurance under the Select and Open programs provide customers the right install any new release products covered the licensing agreement during the term their coverage. Network Service Providers. Microsoft Network Service Providers (NSP) work with variety companies worldwide help them develop and deploy end- -end network solutions based Microsoft platforms. NSPs focus key network service industries including telecommunications and wireless companies and hosts. Online Services and Products. Microsoft distributes online content and services through MSN Access, MSN Network Services, bCentral small business portal, and other online services. MSN Access delivers simple, personalized Internet access, useful content, services and tools using MSN Internet Explorer. MSN Network Services delivers advertising and other services including online search, shopping, and messaging capabilities Internet users. bCentral provides the tools and expertise for small-business owners build, market and manage their businesses online. Other services delivered online include MSDN subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support Microsoft partners developing and selling Microsoft products and solutions. Distributors and Resellers. The Company distributes products the finished goods channels primarily independent non-exclusive distributors and resellers. Distributors and resellers include Ingram Micro, Tech Data, Level Communications, SOFTBANK, Software House International, ASAP Software Express, and Happinet Corporation. Microsoft has network field sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support. CUSTOMERS The Company\x92 customers include individual consumers, small- and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, educational institutions, Internet Service Providers (ISPs), application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and organizations obtain Microsoft products primarily through resellers and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their computing devices. single customer accounted for % more revenue , , . / MSFT FORM - Part Item COMPETITION The software business intensely competitive and subject rapid technological change. the company pursues its largest strategic initiative, Microsoft NET, the Company could experience more intense competition during the transition from the traditional core businesses its new products based the NET architecture. The Company continues face movement from -based applications server-based applications Web-based application hosting services, from proprietary software open source software such the Linux operating system, and from PCs Internet-based devices. number Microsoft\x92 most significant competitors, including IBM, Sun Microsystems, Oracle, and AOL-Time Warner, are collaborating with one another various initiatives directed competing with Microsoft. These initiatives relate part efforts move software from individual PCs centrally managed servers, which would present significant challenges the Company\x92 historical business model. Other competitive collaborative efforts include the development new platform technologies that are intended replicate much the value Microsoft Windows operating systems. New computing form factors, including non- information devices, are gaining popularity and competing with PCs running Microsoft\x92 software products. Microsoft faces formidable competition these new areas and all areas its current business activities. The rapid pace technological change, particularly the area Internet platforms and services, continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. Global software piracy\x97the unlawful copying and distribution Microsoft\x92 copyrighted software products\x97deprives the Company large amounts revenue annual basis. The Company\x92 competitive position may adversely affected the future one more the factors described this section, particularly view the fast pace technological change the computing industry. DESKTOP AND ENTERPRISE SOFTWARE AND SERVICES The Company\x92 competitors include many software application vendors, such IBM, Oracle, Apple, Sun Microsystems, Corel, Qualcomm, and local application developers Europe and Asia. IBM and Corel have large installed bases with their spreadsheet and word processor products, respectively, and both have aggressive pricing strategies. Also, IBM and Apple preinstall certain their application software products various models their PCs, competing directly with Microsoft\x92 desktop application software. Sun Microsystems\x92 Star Office aggressively priced. Additionally, Web-based application hosting services provide alternative -based applications such Microsoft Office. Microsoft\x92 and server operating system products face substantial competition from wide variety companies. Competitors such IBM, Apple Computer, Sun Microsystems, and others are vertically integrated both software development and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they preinstall their own computers. Many these operating system software products are also licensed third-party OEMs for preinstallation their computers. Microsoft\x92 operating system products compete with UNIX-based operating systems from wide range companies, including IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, and others. Variants UNIX run wide variety computer platforms and have gained increasing acceptance desktop operating systems. The Linux open source operating system has gained increasing acceptance well. Several computer manufacturers preinstall Linux servers and many leading software developers have written applications that run Linux. Microsoft Windows operating systems also face competition from alternative platforms such those based Internet browsing software and Java technology promoted AOL-Time Warner and Sun Microsystems. The Company competes the business providing enterprise-wide computing solutions with several competitors who enjoy larger share sales and larger installed bases. Many companies offer operating system software for mainframes and midrange computers, including IBM, , and Sun Microsystems. Since legacy business systems are typically support-intensive, these competitors also offer substantial support services. Software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Oracle, IBM, Computer Associates, Sybase, and Informix. There are also several software vendors who offer connectivity servers. mentioned above, there are numerous companies and organizations that offer Internet and intranet server software, which compete against the Company\x92 business systems. Additionally, IBM has large installed base Lotus Notes and :Mail, both which compete with the Company\x92 collaboration and -mail products. The Company\x92 developer products compete against offerings from BEA Systems, Borland, IBM, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Sybase, and other companies. CONSUMER SOFTWARE, SERVICES, AND DEVICES Microsoft\x92 online services network, MSN, faces formidable competition from AOL-Time Warner, Yahoo!, and vast array Web sites and portals that offer content all types and -mail, instant messaging, calendaring, chat, and search and shopping services, among other things. Xbox competes head- -head against game systems from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large established base game system users. Game developers like Activision, Capcom, Electronic Arts, Sega, Tecmo, and THQ, name few, are both partners and competitors. Microsoft faces many competitors the mobile devices space, including Palm, Symbian, Nokia, and Openwave. The embedded operating system market highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include Wind River and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Red Hat, Lineo, and MontaVista. / MSFT FORM - Part Item , , , CONSUMER COMMERCE INVESTMENTS Microsoft faces many competitors the online real estate and online automotive service spaces, including Homestore, AOL\x92 House and Home channel, Autobytel, AOL autos, and Yahoo! autos. OTHER input devices face substantial competition from computer manufacturers, since computers are typically sold with keyboard and mouse, and other manufacturers these devices. Microsoft Press competes the retail book and eLearning markets with publishers that also create content Microsoft technologies. few the retail competitors are Pearson, WROX, Sybex, and Wiley. The major eLearning competitors are Smartforce and NetG. EMPLOYEES June , , the Company employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales, marketing, and support, , manufacturing and distribution, and , finance and administration. Microsoft\x92 success highly dependent its ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. date, the Company believes has been successful its efforts recruit qualified employees, but there assurance that will continue successful the future. None the Company\x92 employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes relations with its employees are excellent. ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company\x92 corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington, which million square feet corporate campus space situated slightly more than acres land owned and approximately million square feet leased. The Company constructing three buildings with approximately , square feet space that will occupied the Fall . accommodate expansion needs the Company purchased approximately acres, and has option purchase approximately additional acres, land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet additional office space. The Company leases many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. The Company leases many sites internationally totaling approximately million square feet, including the Company\x92 European Operations Center and localization division which leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico and , square-foot facility Singapore for the Company\x92 Asia Pacific Operations Center. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; United Kingdom campus , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; and Beijing, China , square feet. The Company\x92 facilities are fully used for current operations all segments and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note \x97Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding legal proceedings. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . / MSFT FORM - Part Item EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT The executive officers Microsoft July , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates, III Chairman the Board; Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer James . Allchin Group Vice President, Platforms Group Orlando Ayala Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Services Group Robert . (Robbie) Bach Senior Vice President, Games Division Douglas . Burgum Senior Vice President, Business Solutions David . Cole Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Jon Stephan DeVaan Senior Vice President, Division Richard . Emerson Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy Paul Flessner Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Servers Kevin . Johnson Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas Robert . Muglia Senior Vice President, Enterprise Storage Division Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services Richard . Rashid Senior Vice President, Research Eric . Rudder Senior Vice President, Developer and Platform Evangelism Steven . Sinofsky Senior Vice President, Office Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President and General Counsel Brian Valentine Senior Vice President, Windows David Vaskevitch Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Business Platform Deborah . Willingham Senior Vice President, Human Resources . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman the Board since the Company\x92 incorporation. . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms Group December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Ayala was named Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Services Group August . had been Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas since February , and before holding that position, was Vice President the developing markets Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. joined Microsoft Senior Director the Latin America Region. . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Games Division March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Burgum joined the Company upon Microsoft\x92 acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. April . . Burgum became Great Plains\x92 first outside investor March . was named President Great Plains and subsequently named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. . Cole was named Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group November . Before holding that position, had been Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division since August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December and Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . Previously, was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Connors was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer December . had been Vice President, Enterprise since March . . Connors had been Vice President, Information Technology, and Chief Information Officer since July . joined Microsoft . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa July . had been Vice President, Customer Marketing since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President Microsoft Europe since and General Manager for Microsoft France since . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . DeVaan was named Senior Vice President, Division December . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since September . . DeVaan had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications since . . DeVaan joined Microsoft . / MSFT FORM - Part Item . Emerson joined Microsoft November Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy. Prior joining Microsoft, was Managing Director and -head Technology and Telecommunications Advisory Services international investment bank Lazard Freres & . LLC. spent years San Francisco and New York with Lazard and Morgan Stanley, specializing advising clients the technology and telecommunications sectors mergers, acquisitions, and strategic partnerships. . Flessner was named Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Servers December . had been Vice President, Database and Data Access. Since joining the Company, . Flessner\x92 primary responsibilities have been the development Microsoft\x92 database business. joined Microsoft . . Johnson was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas February . had been Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August , and before that, Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. . Johnson was named Vice President, Product Support Services July . joined Microsoft . . Muglia was named Senior Vice President, Enterprise Storage Division November . Before holding that position, had been Group Vice President, Personal Services Group since August . had been Group Vice President, Business Productivity since December . was named Senior Vice President, Business Productivity March and was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools February . had been Vice President, Server Applications since . joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services August . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . Before holding that position, had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Rashid was named Senior Vice President, Research May . had been Vice President, Research since July . joined Microsoft . . Rudder was named Senior Vice President, Developer and Platform Evangelism October . had been Vice President, Technical Strategy. . Rudder joined Microsoft and has worked several areas, including networking, operating systems and developer tools, where previously served General Manager for the Visual Studio development system. . Sinofsky was named Senior Vice President, Office December . had been Vice President, Office since December . . Sinofsky joined the Office team , increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release the desktop suite. joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President and General Counsel November . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the Company\x92 European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . . Valentine was named Senior Vice President, Windows December . had been Vice President, Business and Enterprise since March . had been Vice President, Windows since December . Before managing the Windows group, . Valentine managed the server applications division and had been responsible for the Exchange product unit. joined Microsoft . . Vaskevitch was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Business Platform August . was named Senior Vice President, Business Applications March . had been Senior Vice President, Developer since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Distributed Applications Platform. joined Microsoft . . Willingham was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources February . She had been Vice President, Human Resources since April . . Willingham had been Vice President, Business and Enterprise Division Marketing and was responsible for Windows operating system client and server marketing strategy and training, well for providing centralized marketing services for the Consumer Windows Marketing and Streaming Media Marketing teams. She joined Microsoft . / MSFT FORM - Part Item , PART ITEM . MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The Company\x92 common stock traded The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. June , , there were , registered holders record the Company\x92 common stock. The Company has not paid cash dividends its common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS millions, except earnings per share Year Ended June ( ) ( ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share before accounting change Diluted earnings per share Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , ( ) Fiscal year includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . , and $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments, primarily cable and telecommunication investments. ( ) Fiscal year includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments, primarily related the Company\x92 & investment and further declines the fair values European cable and telecommunications holdings, and $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. / MSFT FORM - Part Item ITEM . MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS RESULTS OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR , , AND Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because factors discussed \x93Issues and Uncertainties.\x94 REVENUE The Company\x92 revenue growth rate was % fiscal , % fiscal , and % fiscal . Revenue growth fiscal was led the addition Xbox video game system revenue and the strong penetration Microsoft Windows Professional and Home operating systems. Revenue growth fiscal was driven primarily licensing Microsoft Windows Professional, Microsoft SQL Server, and the other NET Enterprise Servers. Revenue growth fiscal was driven strong licensing Microsoft Windows Workstation, Windows Professional, Windows Server, Windows Server, Microsoft Office , and SQL Server. Microsoft continued see mix shift volume licensing programs. October , , Microsoft launched Licensing simplify and improve its volume licensing programs, including simplified approach software upgrades. One feature Licensing Software Assurance which gives customers the right install any new release products covered the licensing agreement during the term their coverage. The success Microsoft\x92 new volume licensing programs will continue affect the mix multi-year licensing agreements with resulting impact the timing revenue recognition. addition, the timing and extent recovery consumer and corporate spending PCs and information technology ( ) will factors affecting revenue growth. PRODUCT REVENUE fiscal , Microsoft had four segments: Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services; Consumer Software, Services, and Devices; Consumer Commerce Investments; and Other. The revenue figures this Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis ( & ) differ from those reported the Company\x92 Segment Information appearing Note the Notes Financial Statements. The revenue figures the Segment Information represent amounts reported internally for management reporting, while the revenue figures the & reflect revenue recognized accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. July , , Microsoft revised its product segments and will begin reporting the new segments fiscal . Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services . Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services includes Desktop Applications; Desktop Platforms; and Enterprise Software and Services. Desktop Applications revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop Applications includes revenue from Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Visio; client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server and Windows Server, Exchange, and BackOffice; Microsoft Great Plains; and bCentral. fiscal , Office licensing revenue declined during the year due strong mix shift multi-year annuity licensing agreements, which deferred revenue recognition future years, and decrease consumer purchases the Asia region, most notably Japan, partially offset strong OEM licensing. Revenue from client access licenses grew % fiscal and revenue from Great Plains contributed the growth Desktop Applications. fiscal , revenue from client access licenses increased % reflecting strong licensing growth Windows Server and Windows Server CALs. Office revenue growth was flat during fiscal . fiscal , revenue growth from Microsoft Office integrated suites, including the Premium, Professional, Small Business, and Standard Editions was very solid. Desktop Platforms revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop Platforms includes revenue from Windows Professional and Home, Windows Professional, Windows Workstation, Windows , Windows , and other desktop operating systems. fiscal , the growth Desktop Platforms revenue reflected strong multi-year licensing revenue growth and continued mix shift the higher priced Windows and Windows Professional operating system through OEMs, despite decline reported OEM unit shipments. Fiscal revenue growth reflected the strong adoption Windows Professional, partially offset flat revenue growth from Windows and Windows operating systems, reflecting the slowdown consumer shipments and higher mix Windows Professional and Windows Workstation. fiscal , Desktop Platforms revenue growth was modest due soft demand for business PCs during most the year; slowdown shipments anticipation the post mid-year availability Windows operating systems; and, expected, longer business migration cycle for the newest Windows operating system offerings. The rate growth shipments and the mix Windows and Windows Professional percentage all -bit operating systems will continue impact revenue growth the future. Enterprise Software and Services revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Enterprise Software and Services includes Server Platforms, Server Applications, Developer Tools and Services, and Enterprise Services. fiscal , Server Applications, including Microsoft SQL Server and NET Enterprise Servers, increased % compared fiscal . Server Platform revenue, which includes Windows Server and Windows Server operating systems, increased % versus fiscal driven modest overall increase Windows-based server shipments and increased deployment Windows Server. Enterprise Services revenue, representing consulting and product support services, was % compared fiscal , while revenue from Developer Tools and Services was down % from fiscal . fiscal , Server Applications revenue increased % versus the prior year result / MSFT FORM - Part Item the continued adoption Microsoft\x92 NET Enterprise Server offerings. Enterprise Services revenue fiscal , was % compared fiscal and Server Platforms increased % while revenue from Developer Tools and Services was flat. fiscal , Server Platforms revenue growth was particularly strong led increased adoption customers Windows Server and Windows Server. Revenue from Server Applications grew strongly fiscal , largely due the strong success SQL Server , while Software Developer Tools and Services revenue declined, due increased suite licensing versus stand-alone licenses, and the lack release upgrade the Visual Studio development system. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Consumer Software, Services, and Devices includes the Xbox video game system; MSN Internet access; MSN network service; and online games; learning and productivity software; mobility; and embedded systems. The majority the revenue growth from fiscal stemmed from sales the Xbox video game system released fiscal . MSN Internet access revenue increased result both higher subscriber base and higher average revenue per subscriber due reduction promotional subscriber programs. Revenue from MSN network services increased despite declining Internet advertising market. Revenue from embedded systems fiscal grew nicely, however learning and productivity software revenue and and online games declined compared fiscal . fiscal , revenue from MSN network services grew strongly despite decline the online advertising market. MSN Internet access revenue also grew solidly from fiscal result increased subscriber base, partially offset decline the average revenue per subscriber due larger mix subscribers contracted under rebate programs. Revenue from embedded systems grew strongly from the prior year, while learning and productivity software revenue and and online games revenue declined, reflecting softness the overall consumer market. fiscal , online revenue growth was very strong and reflected higher subscriber totals, offset lower net prices for Internet access subscriptions compared the prior year. Additionally, strong sales entertainment software fiscal produced robust revenue growth and online games. Consumer Commerce Investments. Consumer Commerce Investments revenue was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Consumer Commerce Investments include Expedia, Inc., the HomeAdvisor online real estate service, and the CarPoint online automotive service. The decline revenue compared fiscal reflects the sale Microsoft\x92 majority ownership Expedia, Inc. USA Networks, Inc. February , . Acquisitions Travelscape com and VacationSpot com Expedia, Inc., and increased product offerings from Expedia led the strong revenue growth fiscal . The increased overall reach all properties led the strong revenue growth fiscal . Other. Other revenue, which primarily includes Hardware and Microsoft Press, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . fiscal , continued declines the book and consumer market led decline Microsoft Press and Hardware sales. Lower sales gaming devices and other hardware peripherals result weakness the consumer market caused the decline revenue fiscal . Continued success the Company\x92 new hardware device offerings led revenue growth fiscal . DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS Microsoft distributes its products primarily through the following channels: OEM; volume licensing; online services and products; and distributors and retailers. OEM channel revenue represents license fees from original equipment manufacturers who preinstall Microsoft products, primarily PCs. Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing regions: the South Pacific and Americas Region; the Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region; and the Asia Region. Sales volume licenses and packaged software products via these channels are primarily distributors and resellers. OEM revenue was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . fiscal , reported licenses declined compared fiscal . However, strong increase the mix the higher priced Windows and Windows Professional licenses, and healthy growth direct and system builder OEMs licenses, led higher average revenue per license and contributed the overall OEM revenue growth over fiscal . fiscal , while total licenses were also impacted slowdown shipments, the mix the higher priced Windows Professional and Windows Workstation increased substantially resulting higher average revenue per license. relatively low growth rate fiscal was due lower business shipment growth combined with post mid-year availability Windows Professional. Average earned revenue per license also declined fiscal compared the prior year, due part mix shift the lower-priced Windows operating system reflecting the softness demand for business PCs and lower prices operating systems licensed through certain OEM channel sectors. South Pacific and Americas Region revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . fiscal , the majority the revenue growth was driven sales the Xbox video game system released during the year, well strong Windows Professional licensing, MSN subscription revenue, and revenue from Microsoft Great Plains. fiscal , revenue growth was led strong licensing Windows Professional and the family NET Enterprise Servers, particularly SQL Server and Exchange Server. Revenue from Enterprise services and MSN subscription and services also grew strongly fiscal . fiscal , Office integrated suites, Windows Server, online revenue, and SQL Server sales were the primary drivers the revenue growth. Strong retail sales hardware devices and consumer software also contributed the growth over the prior year. Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . fiscal , the majority the growth was result strong multi-year licensing revenue Windows Home and Professional operating systems and Enterprise Software, well the addition Xbox video game system revenue the second half the year. fiscal , weakening local currencies negatively impacted translated revenue compared the prior year, while revenue from Windows Professional and the NET Enterprise Server family products was very healthy. fiscal , retail sales Windows operating systems and / MSFT FORM - Part Item Office licensing produced moderate growth the region. Growth from SQL Server licensing, new hardware device offerings, and entertainment software was especially strong. Asia Region revenue was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . fiscal , Asia region revenue declined most notably due lower consumer shipments, which hampered revenue from localized versions Microsoft Office and Microsoft Office , especially the Office Personal Edition. Xbox video game system sales partially offset the decline Office revenue. fiscal , the region\x92 growth rate reflected strong revenue from localized versions Microsoft Office and Microsoft Office , especially the Office Personal Edition. This growth was also attributable Windows Professional and NET Server applications licensing. fiscal , the region\x92 growth rate reflected strong performance resulting from improved local economic conditions. Revenue growth was also influenced robust growth localized versions Microsoft Office , especially the Office Personal Edition sold Japan, Windows platform and server licensing, and strong adoption SQL Server. The Company\x92 operating results are affected foreign exchange rates. Approximately %, %, and % the Company\x92 revenue was collected foreign currencies during , , and . Since portion local currency revenue hedged and much the Company\x92 international manufacturing costs and operating expenses are also incurred local currencies, the impact exchange rates partially mitigated. OPERATING EXPENSES Cost Revenue . Cost revenue percent revenue was % , % , and % . Cost revenue fiscal increased primarily due costs related Xbox. fiscal , higher support and service costs associated with the MSN Internet access and MSN network services were partially offset the lower relative costs associated with organizational licensing and the drop the mix packaged product versus the prior year. Cost revenue fiscal reflected lower costs associated with WebTV Networks\x92 operations, partially offset the growth hardware peripherals costs. Research and Development. The discontinuation goodwill amortization fiscal accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, offset the growth headcount and development costs. fiscal , the increase & expense was the result higher headcount-related costs and investments new product initiatives. The increase fiscal was driven primarily higher headcount-related costs. Prospectively, increased headcount and increased spending Server Platforms, Home & Entertainment, Business Solutions and are currently expected significant factors affecting future research and development expense growth. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense percentage revenue was % , % , and % . fiscal , sales and marketing expense percentage revenue decreased due lower relative MSN customer acquisition marketing and the large relative increase associated with the onset Xbox video game system revenue. fiscal , sales and marketing expenses percentage revenue increased due higher relative headcount-related costs, higher marketing and sales expenses associated with MSN, the Microsoft Agility advertising campaign, and other new sales initiatives. fiscal , sales and marketing expenses percentage revenue increased due higher relative marketing costs associated with new product releases and online marketing. Microsoft expects that will increase spending Information Worker, Server Platforms, and Business Solutions sales forces and Windows Client, MSN and Home & Entertainment marketing. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses fiscal increased due charge approximately $ million for estimated expenses related the Company\x92 consumer class action lawsuits and higher legal fees. fiscal , general and administrative costs decreased due charge related the settlement the lawsuit with Caldera, Inc. recorded fiscal . Excluding this charge fiscal , general and administrative expenses fiscal increased from the prior year due higher headcount-related costs and legal fees. For fiscal , besides the settlement the lawsuit, general and administrative expenses also reflected increased legal fees and certain employee stock option-related expenses. NON-OPERATING ITEMS, INVESTMENT INCOME/(LOSS), AND INCOME TAXES Losses equity investees and other consists Microsoft\x92 share income loss from investments accounted for using the equity method, and income loss attributable minority interests. The decrease losses equity investees and other fiscal was attributed the divestiture certain equity investments fiscal . The increase losses equity investees and other fiscal reflects increase the number such investments during the year. fiscal losses equity investees and other decreased reflecting smaller losses from the MSNBC entities. / MSFT FORM - Part Item The Company recorded net investment income/(loss) each year follows: Millions Year Ended June Dividends $ $ $ Interest , , , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments: Net gains the sales investments , , , Other-than-temporary impairments ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Net unrealized losses attributable derivative instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains/(losses) investments , ( , ) ( , ) Investment income/(loss) $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments primarily related the Company\x92 investment & and other cable and telecommunication investments. Net gains the sales investments included $ billion gain the sale the Company\x92 share Expedia. Interest and dividend income decreased $ million from fiscal result lower interest rates and dividend income. fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments primarily related cable and telecommunication investments. Net gains from the sales investments fiscal included gain from Microsoft\x92 investment Titus Communications (which was merged with Jupiter Telecommunications) and the closing the sale Transpoint CheckFree Holdings Corp. Interest and dividend income increased $ million from fiscal , reflecting larger investment portfolio. fiscal year , investment income increased primarily result larger investment portfolio generated cash from operations coupled with realized gains from the sale securities. June , , unrealized losses Equity and Other Investments $ million were deemed temporary nature. The following, among other factors, could result some investments being deemed other-than-temporarily impaired future periods: changes the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost; the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors; and the Company\x92 intent and ability hold the investment. connection with the definitive agreement combine & Broadband with Comcast new company called & Comcast Corporation, Microsoft has agreed exchange its & % convertible preferred debt securities for approximately million shares & Comcast Corporation. expected that the transaction will close December , . While possible that Microsoft could incur loss this exchange transaction the carrying value the & debt securities, management believes that the ultimate loss, any, will significantly less. management unable predict whether there will gain loss the exchange, loss has been recorded related this contingent exchange transaction June , . The Company\x92 effective tax rate for fiscal was %. The effective tax rate for fiscal and fiscal was % and %, respectively. The decrease the effective tax rate due primarily lower taxes foreign earnings. ACCOUNTING CHANGES Effective July , , Microsoft adopted SFAS , Business Combinations, and SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS requires business combinations accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separate from goodwill. SFAS requires that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. There was impairment goodwill upon adoption SFAS . Goodwill amortization ( pre-tax basis) was $ million fiscal and $ million fiscal . Effective July , , Microsoft adopted SFAS , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. The adoption SFAS resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax reduction other comprehensive income (OCI) $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset the reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. FINANCIAL CONDITION The Company\x92 cash and short-term investment portfolio totaled $ billion June , . The portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Microsoft\x92 investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. / MSFT FORM - Part Item Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . The increase reflects strong growth unearned revenue. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from the prior year. The decrease reflects the repurchase put warrants the prior year. The Company repurchased million shares common stock under its share repurchase program fiscal , compared million shares repurchased the prior year. addition, million shares common stock were acquired fiscal under structured stock repurchase transaction. The Company entered into the structured stock repurchase transaction fiscal , giving the right acquire million its shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . Cash flow from operations was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable the growth revenue and other changes working capital, partially offset the decrease the stock option income tax benefit, reflecting decreased stock option exercises employees. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase primarily reflects the repurchase put warrants fiscal , compared the sale put warrants the prior fiscal year, well increase common stock repurchased. All outstanding put warrants were either retired exercised during fiscal . During fiscal , the Company repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. fiscal , cash flow from operations was $ billion, decrease $ million from the prior year, reflecting working capital changes partially offset the increase the stock option income tax benefit. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year, reflecting increase common stock repurchased versus the prior year. During fiscal , the Company repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. Microsoft has material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , was $ billion. Microsoft will continue invest sales, marketing, and product support infrastructure. Additionally, research and development activities will include investments existing and advanced areas technology, including using cash acquire technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for & , sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . The Company has not engaged any transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely affect materially liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. Since fiscal , Microsoft has repurchased million common shares while billion shares were issued under the Company\x92 employee stock option and purchase plans. The Company\x92 convertible preferred stock matured December , . Each preferred share was converted into common shares. Management believes existing cash and short-term investments together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements. The Company\x92 cash and short-term investments are available for strategic investments, mergers and acquisitions, other potential large-scale needs and fund the share repurchase program. Microsoft has not paid cash dividends its common stock. SUBSEQUENT EVENT July , , Microsoft acquired Navision result the successful close tender offer. Microsoft purchased Navision\x92 shares for approximately $ billion stock and cash. Navision provider integrated business software solutions for small and medium-sized companies. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Microsoft\x92 financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with generally accepted accounting principles the United States. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for Microsoft include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, and accounting for income taxes. Microsoft accounts for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Software Revenue Recognition. The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) fair value exists for those elements. End users receive certain elements the Company\x92 products over period time. These elements include browser technologies updates and technical support, the fair value which recognized over the product\x92 estimated life cycle. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities, provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired, which also requires judgment. making this judgment, Microsoft evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent which the fair value investment less than its cost; the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including factors such industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow; and the Company\x92 intent and ability hold the investment. Microsoft accounts for research and development costs accordance with several accounting pronouncements, including SFAS , Accounting for Research and Development Costs, and SFAS , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Other- / MSFT FORM - Part Item wise Marketed. SFAS specifies that costs incurred internally creating computer software product should charged expense when incurred research and development until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when the technological feasibility product established. Microsoft has determined that technological feasibility for its products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, the Company expenses all research and development costs when incurred. Microsoft subject various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes which are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies, requires that estimated loss from loss contingency should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. The Company evaluates, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact the Company\x92 financial position its results operations. SFAS , Accounting for Income Taxes, establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized the Company\x92 financial statements tax returns. Fluctuations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact the Company\x92 financial position its results operations. ISSUES AND UNCERTAINTIES The following issues and uncertainties, among others, should considered evaluating the Company\x92 financial outlook. Challenges the Company\x92 Business Model. Since its inception, the Company\x92 business model has been based upon customers agreeing pay fee license software developed and distributed Microsoft. Under this commercial software development (\x93CSD\x94) model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenues received from the distribution their products. The Company believes that the CSD model has had substantial benefits for users software, allowing them rely the expertise the Company and other software developers that have powerful incentives develop innovative software that useful, reliable and compatible with other software and hardware. recent years, there has been growing challenge the CSD model, often referred the Open Source movement. Under the Open Source model, software produced global \x93communities\x94 programmers, and the resulting software and the intellectual property contained therein licensed end users little cost. The Company believes that there are significant problems with the Open Source model, the principal drawback being that single entity responsible for the Open Source software, and thus users have recourse product does not work properly all. Further, without the market incentives associated with the CSD model, the Company believes that the vigorous innovation and growth the software industry over the last years would not have occurred. Nonetheless, the popularization the Open Source movement continues pose significant challenge the Company\x92 business model, including recent efforts proponents the Open Source model convince governments worldwide mandate the use Open Source software their purchase and deployment software products. the extent the Open Source model gains increasing market acceptance, sales the Company\x92 products may decline, the Company may have reduce the prices charges for its products, and revenues and operating margins may consequently decline. New Products and Services. The Company has made significant investments research and development for new products, services and technologies, including Microsoft NET, Xbox, business applications, MSN, mobile and wireless technologies, and television. Significant revenue from these investments may not achieved for number years, all. Moreover, these products and services may never profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for these businesses are not expected high the margins historically experienced our Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services businesses. Declines Demand for Software. overall market demand for PCs, servers and other computing devices declines significantly, and consumer and corporate spending for such products declines, Microsoft\x92 revenue growth will adversely affected. Additionally, the Company\x92 revenues would unfavorably impacted customers reduce their purchases new software products upgrades existing products such new offerings are not perceived add significant new functionality other value prospective purchasers. Product Development Schedule. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new product releases significant problems creating new products could negatively impact the Company\x92 revenues. International Operations. Microsoft develops and sells products throughout the world. The prices the Company\x92 products countries outside the United States are generally higher than the Company\x92 prices the United States because the cost incurred localizing software for non- . markets. The costs producing and selling the Company\x92 products these countries also are higher. Pressure globalize Microsoft\x92 pricing structure might require that the Company reduce the sales price its software other countries, even though the costs the software continue higher than the United States. Unfavorable changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region, including foreign exchange rates; difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; and potential adverse foreign tax consequences, among other factors, could also have negative effect the Company\x92 business and results operations outside the United States. / MSFT FORM - Part Item Intellectual Property Rights. Microsoft diligently defends its intellectual property rights, but unlicensed copying and use software represents loss revenue the Company. While this adversely affects . revenue, revenue loss even more significant outside the United States, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Throughout the world, Microsoft actively educates consumers the benefits licensing genuine products and educates lawmakers the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued efforts may not affect revenue positively and further deterioration compliance with existing legal protections reductions the legal protection for intellectual property rights software developers could adversely affect revenue. Taxation Extraterritorial Income. August , World Trade Organization (\x93WTO\x94) dispute panel determined that the extraterritorial tax (\x93ETI\x94) provisions the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act constitute export subsidy prohibited the WTO Agreement Subsidies and Countervailing Measures Agreement. The . government appealed the panel\x92 decision and lost its appeal. January , , the WTO Dispute Settlement Body adopted the Appellate Body report. President Bush has stated the . will bring its tax laws into compliance with the WTO ruling, but the Administration and Congress have not decided solution for this issue. July , Representative Bill Thomas, Chairman the House Ways and Means Committee, introduced the American Competitiveness and Corporate Accountability Act . enacted, that bill would repeal the ETI regime and introduce broad-based international reform. The proposed reforms would not materially affect the Company. August , , WTO arbitration panel determined that the European Union may impose $ billion per year countermeasures the . rules are not brought into compliance. The WTO decision does not repeal the ETI tax benefit and does not require the European Union impose trade sanctions, not possible predict what impact the WTO decision will have future results pending final resolution these matters. the ETI exclusion repealed and replacement legislation not enacted, the loss tax benefit the Company could significant. Litigation. discussed Note \x97Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements, the Company subject variety claims and lawsuits. While the Company believes that none the litigation matters which the Company currently involved will have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial position results operations, possible that one more these matters could resolved manner that would ultimately have material adverse impact the business the Company, and could negatively impact its revenues and operating margins. ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company exposed foreign currency, interest rate, and equity price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact the Company\x92 results operations and financial position. The Company hedges the exposure accounts receivable and portion anticipated revenue foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. The Company monitors its foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness its foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed income securities are subject interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. The Company routinely uses options hedge its exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Many securities held the Company\x92 equity and other investments portfolio are subject price risk. The Company uses options hedge its price risk certain highly volatile equity securities. The Company uses value- -risk (VAR) model estimate and quantify its market risks. VAR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value the Company\x92 portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. The model used for currencies and equities geometric Brownian motion, which allow incorporation optionality these exposures. For interest rates, the mean reverting geometric Brownian motion used reflect the principle that fixed-income securities prices over time revert maturity value. Value- -risk calculated , first, simulating , market price paths over days for equities, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, taking into account historical correlations among the different rates and prices. Each resulting unique set equities prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates applied substantially all individual holdings -price each holding. The worst performance (out , ) represents the value- -risk over days the percentile. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. substantial amount the Company\x92 equity portfolio held for strategic purposes. The Company attempts hedge the value these securities through the use derivative contracts such collars. The Company has incurred substantial impairment charges related certain these securities fiscal and fiscal . Such impairment charges have been incurred primarily for strategic equity holdings that the Company has not been able hedge. The VAR amounts disclosed below are not necessarily reflective potential accounting losses, they are used risk management tool and reflect estimate potential reductions fair value the Company\x92 portfolio. Losses fair value over -day holding period can exceed the reported VAR significant amounts and can also accumulate over longer time horizon than the -day holding period used the VAR analysis. The VAR numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency, and equity risks. These VAR numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. Historical data used estimate VAR. Given reliance historical data, VAR most effective estimating risk exposures markets which there are fundamental changes shifts market conditions. inherent limitation VAR that the distribution past changes market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions future market risk. / MSFT FORM - Part Item , The following table sets forth the VAR calculations for substantially all the Company\x92 positions: Millions June , Year ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Interest rates $ $ $ $ $ Currency rates Equity prices The total VAR for the combined risk categories $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VAR % less June , and % less June, than the sum the separate risk categories for each those years the above table, due the diversification benefit the combination risks. The reasons for the change risk portfolios include: larger investment portfolio size, higher foreign exchange exposure due stronger non- . currencies, and asset allocation shifts. ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS millions, except earnings per share Year Ended June Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) , ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Income before accounting change , , , Cumulative effect accounting change (net income taxes $ ) \x96 ( ) \x96 Net income $ , $ , $ , Basic earnings per share: Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change \x96 ( ) \x96 $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share: Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change \x96 ( ) \x96 $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part Item BALANCE SHEETS millions June Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventories Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net Other long-term assets , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation , Income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Deferred income taxes Other long-term liabilities Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital\x97shares authorized , ; Shares issued and outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ and $ , , Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS millions Year Ended June Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax \x96 \x96 Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , , Net recognized (gains)/losses investments ( , ) , , Stock option income tax benefits , , , Deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( , ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities ( ) , Other long-term liabilities Net cash from operations , , , Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sales/(repurchases) put warrants ( , ) \x96 Preferred stock dividends ( ) \x96 \x96 Other, net \x96 \x96 Net cash used for financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( ) ( , ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , Sales investments , , , Net cash used for investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net change cash and equivalents ( ) ( ) ( ) Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning year , , , Cash and equivalents, end year $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS millions Year Ended June Convertible preferred stock Balance, beginning year $ $ \x96 $ \x96 Conversion preferred common stock ( ) \x96 \x96 Balance, end year \x96 \x96 \x96 Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning year , , , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Sales/(repurchases) put warrants ( , ) \x96 Stock option income tax benefits , , , Other, net \x96 ( ) Balance, end year , , , Retained earnings Balance, beginning year , , , Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Cumulative effect accounting change \x96 ( ) \x96 Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments \x96 ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) ( ) ( , ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Comprehensive income , , , Preferred stock dividends ( ) \x96 \x96 Immaterial pooling interests \x96 \x96 Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end year , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. PRINCIPLES CONSOLIDATION The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries (Microsoft). Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which Microsoft owns least % the voting securities are accounted for using the equity method, except for investments which the Company not able exercise significant influence over the investee, which case, the cost method accounting used. Issuances shares subsidiary are accounted for capital transactions. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies and product life cycles, and assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when the Company reaches technological feasibility for its products; the potential outcome the future tax consequences events that have been recognized the Company\x92 financial statements tax returns; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from these estimates and assumptions. FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited other comprehensive income (OCI). Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. REVENUE RECOGNITION Microsoft accounts for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Software Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue when ( ) persuasive evidence arrangement exists; ( ) delivery has occurred services have been rendered; (iii) the sales price fixed determinable; and ( ) collectibility reasonably assured. For software arrangements with multiple elements, revenue recognized dependent upon whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) fair value exists for each the elements. When VSOE does not exist for all the elements software arrangement and the only undelivered element postcontract customer support (PCS), the entire licensing fee recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue attributable undelivered elements, including technical support and Internet browser technologies, based the average sales price those elements when sold separately, and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the product\x92 life cycle. PCS and subscription revenue recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue from products licensed original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) based the licensing agreement with OEM and has historically been recognized when OEMs ship licensed products their customers. Licensing provisions were modified with the introduction Windows and revenue for certain products recorded upon shipment the product OEMs. The effect this change licensing provisions was not material. Revenue from packaged product sales distributors and resellers usually recorded when related products are shipped. However, when the revenue recognition criteria required for distributor and reseller arrangements are not met, revenue recognized payments are received. Revenue related the Company\x92 Xbox game console recognized upon shipment the product retailers. Online advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for certain products, are accrued. Provisions are recorded for estimated returns, concessions, and bad debts. COST REVENUE Cost revenue includes direct costs manufacture and distribute product and direct costs provide online services, consulting, product support, and training and certification system integrators. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Technological feasibility for Microsoft\x92 software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, the Company expenses all research and development costs when incurred. ADVERTISING COSTS Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . / MSFT FORM - Part Item INCOME TAXES Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect this difference reported deferred income taxes. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company considers all liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Short-term investments generally mature between three months and six years from the purchase date. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments include debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. Microsoft lends certain fixed income and equity securities enhance investment income. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. The fair value collateral that Microsoft permitted sell repledge was $ million both June , and . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. The Company employs systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment its investments. the event that the cost investment exceeds its fair value, the Company evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost; the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors; and the Company\x92 intent and ability hold the investment. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. , the Company recognized $ billion impairments certain investments, primarily the cable and telecommunication industries. , Microsoft recognized $ billion impairments certain investments, primarily related further declines the fair values . and European cable and telecommunications holdings. The Company uses derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, security price, and interest rate risks. The Company\x92 objectives for holding derivatives are minimize these risks using the most effective methods eliminate reduce the impact these exposures. Foreign Currency Risk. Certain forecasted transactions and assets are exposed foreign currency risk. The Company monitors its foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness its foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Options used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future are designated cash flow hedging instruments. Options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies. Securities Price Risk. Strategic equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, the Company uses and designates options hedge fair values and cash flows certain equity securities. The security, forecasted sale thereof, selected for hedging determined market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Once established, the hedges are not dynamically managed traded, and are generally not removed until maturity. Interest Rate Risk. Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. The Company routinely uses options, not designated hedging instruments, hedge its exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Other Derivatives. addition, the Company may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. For options designated either fair value cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness. ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects management\x92 best estimate probable losses inherent the account receivable balance. Management determines the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts follows: Millions Year Ended June Balance beginning period Charged costs and expenses Write-offs and other Balance end period $ $ $ $ / MSFT FORM - Part Item INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally not excess three years. GOODWILL Beginning fiscal with the adoption SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. Prior fiscal , goodwill was amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated period benefit. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from three seven years. The Company periodically evaluates the recoverability intangible assets and takes into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. All Microsoft\x92 intangible assets are subject amortization. RECLASSIFICATIONS Certain reclassifications have been made for consistent presentation. NOTE ACCOUNTING CHANGES Effective July , , the Company adopted SFAS , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. The adoption SFAS July , , resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax reduction OCI $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. The net derivative losses included OCI July , were reclassified into earnings during the twelve months ended June , . The change accounting from the adoption SFAS did not materially affect net income . Effective July , , Microsoft adopted SFAS , Business Combinations, and SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separate from goodwill. SFAS requires that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. There was impairment goodwill upon adoption SFAS . Net income and earnings per share for fiscal and fiscal adjusted exclude amortization expense (net taxes) follows: Millions, Except Earnings Per Share Year Ended June Net income: Reported net income $ , $ , Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization Adjusted net income $ , $ , Basic earnings per share: Reported basic earnings per share $ $ Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization \x96 \x96 Adjusted basic earnings per share $ $ Diluted earnings per share: Reported diluted earnings per share $ $ Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization \x96 \x96 Adjusted diluted earnings per share $ $ / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE UNEARNED REVENUE portion Microsoft\x92 revenue under volume licensing programs earned ratably over the period the license agreement. Also, revenue attributable undelivered elements, including technical support and Internet browser technologies, based the average sales price those elements when sold separately, and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recognized ratably for undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % for Windows Home, approximately % % for Windows Professional, and approximately % % for desktop applications, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three years for Windows operating systems and months for desktop applications. The components unearned revenue were follows: Millions June Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other Unearned revenue $ , $ , Unearned revenue product was follows: Millions June Desktop Applications $ , $ , Desktop Platforms , , Enterprise Software and Services Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services , , Consumer Software, Services, and Devices, and Other Unearned revenue $ , $ , the $ billion unearned revenue June , , $ billion expected recognized the first quarter fiscal , $ billion the second quarter fiscal , $ billion the third quarter fiscal , $ million the fourth quarter fiscal , and $ billion thereafter. / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE CASH AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS Millions June , Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and equivalents: Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , Commercial paper \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 . government and agency securities \x96 \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , \x96 \x96 , Municipal securities \x96 \x96 Cash and equivalents , \x96 \x96 , Short-term investments: Commercial paper \x96 . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , Municipal securities , \x96 , Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Short-term investments , ( ) , Cash and short-term investments $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Millions June , Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and equivalents: Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , Commercial paper \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Money market mutual funds \x96 \x96 Corporate notes and bonds \x96 \x96 Municipal securities \x96 \x96 Cash and equivalents , \x96 \x96 , Short-term investments: Commercial paper \x96 \x96 . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , Municipal securities , \x96 , Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Short-term investments , ( ) , Cash and short-term investments $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Realized gains and (losses) from cash and short-term investments were $ million and $( ) million , $ million and $( ) million , and $ million and $( ) million . / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE INVENTORIES Millions June Finished goods $ $ Raw materials and work process Inventories $ $ NOTE PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Millions June Land $ $ Buildings , , Computer equipment and software , , Other , , Property and equipment \x96 cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment \x96 net $ , $ , During , , and , depreciation expense, which the majority related computer equipment, was $ million, $ million, and $ million. NOTE EQUITY AND OTHER INVESTMENTS Millions June , Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ \x96 $ \x96 $ Between and years ( ) Between and years \x96 ( ) Beyond years , \x96 ( ) , Debt securities recorded market , ( ) , Common stock and warrants , , ( ) , Preferred stock \x96 \x96 Other investments \x96 \x96 Equity and other investments $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , / MSFT FORM - Part Item Millions June , Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ $ \x96 $ Between and years ( ) Between and years ( ) Beyond years , \x96 \x96 , Debt securities recorded market , ( ) , Common stock and warrants , , ( ) , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 Equity and other investments $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Debt securities include corporate and government notes and bonds and derivative securities. Debt securities maturing beyond years are composed entirely & % convertible preferred debt with contractual maturity years. The debt convertible the Company\x92 option into & common stock after December , , may redeemed & upon satisfaction certain conditions after June , . connection with the definitive agreement combine & Broadband with Comcast new company called & Comcast Corporation, Microsoft has agreed exchange its & % convertible preferred debt securities for approximately million shares & Comcast Corporation. expected that the transaction will close December , . While possible that Microsoft could incur loss this exchange transaction the carrying value the & debt securities, management believes that the ultimate loss, any, will significantly less. management unable predict whether there will gain loss the exchange, loss has been recorded related this contingent exchange transaction June , . Equity securities that are restricted for more than one year not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , the estimated fair value these investments excess their recorded basis was $ million. June , the recorded basis these investments excess their estimated fair value was $ million. This excess cost over estimated fair value was deemed temporary nature. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. Realized gains and (losses) from equity and other investments (excluding impairments discussed previously) were $ billion and $( ) million , $ billion and $( ) million , and $ billion and $( ) million . NOTE GOODWILL During fiscal , goodwill was reduced $ million, principally connection with Microsoft\x92 exchange all its million shares and warrants Expedia, Inc. USA Networks, Inc. goodwill was acquired impaired during fiscal . June , , Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services goodwill was $ billion, Consumer Software, Services, and Devices goodwill was $ million, and Consumer Commerce Investments goodwill was $ million. NOTE INTANGIBLE ASSETS During fiscal , changes intangible assets primarily relates the Company\x92 acquisition $ million patents and licenses and $ million existing technology, which will amortized over approximately years. significant residual value estimated for these intangible assets. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal and $ million for fiscal . The components intangible assets were follows: Millions June Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Patents and licenses $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Existing technology ( ) ( ) Trademarks, tradenames and other ( ) ( ) Intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Amortization expense for the net carrying amount intangible assets June , estimated $ million fiscal , $ million fiscal , $ million fiscal , and $ million fiscal . / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE DERIVATIVES For fiscal , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million gain for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million loss for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. For fiscal , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million gain for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million net loss for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). The derivative losses reclassified investment income/(loss) were offset gains the item being hedged. The Company estimates that $ million net derivative gains included other comprehensive income will reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. For instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS , had impact earnings for the fiscal and . fair value hedges cash flow hedges were derecognized discontinued for fiscal and . NOTE INVESTMENT INCOME/(LOSS) The components investment income/(loss) are follows: Millions Year Ended June Dividends $ $ $ Interest , , , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments: Net gains the sales investments , , , Other-than-temporary impairments ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Net unrealized losses attributable derivative instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains/(losses) investments , ( , ) ( , ) Investment income/(loss) $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) NOTE INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes consisted : Millions Year Ended June Current taxes: . and state $ , $ , $ , International Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , . and international components income before income taxes were: Millions Year Ended June . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , / MSFT FORM - Part Item , the effective tax rate was %, and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for tax credits and % increase for other items. , the effective tax rate was %, and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for tax credits and % increase for other items. The effective tax rate was %, and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for the extraterritorial income exclusion tax benefit and % reduction for other items. Deferred income taxes were: Millions June Deferred income tax assets: Revenue items $ , $ , Expense items Impaired investments , , Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: Unrealized gain investments $ ( ) $ ( ) International earnings ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Microsoft has not provided for . deferred income taxes foreign withholding taxes $ million its undistributed earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries, all which relate fiscal earnings, since these earnings are intended reinvested indefinitely. September , , the . Tax Court issued adverse ruling with respect Microsoft\x92 claim that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) incorrectly assessed taxes for and . The Company has filed appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals this matter. Income taxes, except for items related the and assessments, have been settled with the IRS for all years through . The IRS examining the Company\x92 through . income tax returns. Management believes any adjustments which may required will not material the financial statements. Income taxes paid were $ million , $ billion , and $ billion . NOTE STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares common stock outstanding were follows: Millions Year Ended June Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , The Company repurchases its common shares the open market provide shares for issuance employees under stock option and stock purchase plans. , the Company acquired million its shares result structured stock repurchase transaction entered into , which gave the right acquire such shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. enhance its stock repurchase program, Microsoft has sold put warrants independent third parties. These put warrants entitled the holders sell shares Microsoft common stock the Company certain dates specified prices. the third quarter fiscal , the Company issued million shares settle portion the outstanding put warrants. June , and , there were outstanding put warrants. During , Microsoft issued million shares % convertible exchangeable principal-protected preferred stock. The Company\x92 convertible preferred stock matured December , . Each preferred share was converted into common shares. / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Millions Year Ended June Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax effect $( ) $ \x96 $ ( ) $ \x96 Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments: Unrealized gains, net tax effect $ and $ \x96 Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $ and $( ) \x96 ( ) Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments \x96 ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/(losses): Unrealized holding gains/(losses), net tax effect $ , $( ) , and $( ) ( , ) ( , ) Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $ ( ) ( ) , Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) ( ) ( , ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) The components accumulated other comprehensive income were: Millions June Net gains derivative instruments $ $ Net unrealized investment gains Translation adjustments and other ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income $ $ NOTE EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN The Company has employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares the Company\x92 common stock may purchased six-month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During , , and , employees purchased million, million, and million shares average prices $ , $ , and $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. SAVINGS PLAN The Company has savings plan, which qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Participating employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. The Company contributes fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . STOCK OPTION PLANS The Company has stock option plans for directors, officers, and employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options. Options granted prior generally vest over four and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire after years. Options granted during vest over four and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. June , , options for million shares were vested and million shares were available for future grants under the plans. / MSFT FORM - Part Item Stock options outstanding were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Price per Share Shares Range Weighted Average Balance, June , $ \x96 $ $ Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , \x96 For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics outstanding stock options June , were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Range Exercise Prices Shares Remaining Life (Years) Weighted Average Price Shares Weighted Average Price $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 The Company follows Accounting Principles Board Opinion , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees, account for stock option and employee stock purchase plans. alternative method accounting for stock options SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Employee stock options are valued grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and this compensation cost recognized ratably over the vesting period. / MSFT FORM - Part Item Had compensation cost for the Company\x92 stock option and employee stock purchase plans been determined prescribed SFAS , pro forma income statements for , , and would have been follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Year Ended June Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , , , , Research and development , , , , , , Sales and marketing , , , , , , General and administrative , , , , , Total operating expenses , , , , , , Operating income , , , , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) , , ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes , , , , , , Provision for income taxes , , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , , Cumulative effect accounting change \x96 \x96 ( ) ( ) \x96 \x96 Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ The weighted average Black-Scholes value options granted under the stock option plans during , , and was $ , $ , and $ . Value was estimated using weighted average expected life years , years , and years , dividends, volatility ,. , and , and risk-free interest rates %, %, and % , , and . / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding plus the effect outstanding preferred shares using the \x93 -converted\x94 method, outstanding put warrants using the \x93reverse treasury stock\x94 method, and outstanding stock options using the \x93treasury stock\x94 method. The components basic and diluted earnings per share were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Year Ended June Income before accounting change $ , $ , $ , Preferred stock dividends \x96 \x96 Net income available for common shareholders $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock , , , Dilutive effect : Put warrants \x96 Preferred stock \x96 \x96 Employee stock options Common stock and common stock equivalents , , , Earnings per share before accounting change: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ For the years ended June , , and , million, million, and million shares attributable outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the effect was antidilutive. NOTE OPERATIONAL TRANSACTIONS January , the Company acquired Visio Corporation transaction that was accounted for pooling interests. Microsoft issued million shares valued approximately $ billion the exchange for the outstanding stock Visio. Visio\x92 assets and liabilities, which were nominal, are included with those Microsoft the merger. Operating results for Visio from periods prior the merger were not material the combined results the two companies. Accordingly, the financial statements for such periods have not been restated. April , the Company acquired Great Plains Software, Inc. for approximately $ billion stock. Great Plains leading supplier mid-market business applications. The acquisition was accounted for the purchase method and operating results for Great Plains subsequent the date acquisition are included with those Microsoft. The pro forma impact Great Plains\x92 operating results prior the date acquisition was not material. NOTE COMMITMENTS The Company has operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases, millions dollars, are: , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; and thereafter, $ . Microsoft has committed $ million for constructing new buildings. addition, the Company has guaranteed $ million debt its equity investees. NOTE CONTINGENCIES The Company defendant . . Microsoft , lawsuit filed the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice (DOJ) and group eighteen state Attorneys General alleging violations the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. After the trial, the District Court entered Findings Fact and Conclusions Law stating that Microsoft had violated Sections and the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. Judgment was entered June , ordering, among other things, the breakup Microsoft into two companies. / MSFT FORM - Part Item The Judgment was stayed pending appeal. June , , the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit affirmed part, reversed part, and vacated the Judgment its entirety and remanded the case the District Court for new trial one Section claim and for entry new judgment consistent with its ruling. its ruling, the Court Appeals substantially narrowed the bases liability found the District Court, but affirmed some the District Court\x92 conclusions that Microsoft had violated Section . October , , the trial court held status conference and entered orders requiring the parties engage settlement discussions until November , . Microsoft entered into settlement with the United States November , . Nine states (New York, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina and Wisconsin) agreed settle substantially the same terms November , . hearing the settlement was held the Court March , . The Court will now decide whether approve the settlement being the public interest. Nine states and the District Columbia continue litigate the remedies phase . . Microsoft . The non-settling states are seeking imposition remedy that would impose much broader restrictions Microsoft\x92 business than the proposed settlement with the DOJ and nine other states. The Court conducted evidentiary hearing related the non-settling states\x92 proposed remedies from March June , . decision anticipated later calendar . other ongoing investigations, the DOJ and several state Attorneys General have requested information from Microsoft concerning various issues. addition, the European Commission has instituted proceedings which alleges that Microsoft has failed disclose information that Microsoft competitors claim they need interoperate fully with Windows clients and servers and has engaged discriminatory licensing such technology, well improper bundling multimedia playback technology the Windows operating system. The remedies sought, though not fully defined, include mandatory disclosure Microsoft Windows operating system technology and imposition fines. Microsoft denies the European Commission\x92 allegations and intends contest the proceedings vigorously. large number overcharge class action lawsuits have been initiated against Microsoft various state and Federal courts. These cases allege that Microsoft has competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications and seek recover alleged overcharges that the complaints contend Microsoft charged for these products. Microsoft believes the claims are without merit and vigorously defending the cases. date, Microsoft has won dismissals all claims for damages indirect purchasers under Federal law and separate state court proceedings, which seven have been affirmed and one has been reversed. Claims behalf foreign purchasers have also been dismissed. Appeals several these rulings are still pending. trials other proceedings have been held concerning any liability issues. Courts several states have ruled that these cases may proceed class actions, while two courts have denied class certification status the claims that state proceeding and another has ruled that class action available for claims that state. fiscal , the Company recorded contingent liability approximately $ million representing management\x92 estimate the costs resolving the contingency. Management\x92 contingent liability estimate based upon proposed settlement between Microsoft and lead counsel for the Federal plaintiffs. While the proposed settlement was not approved the District Court, management believes that the proposal represents the best estimate the costs resolving the contingency based currently available information. The Company intends continue vigorously defending these lawsuits. Netscape Communications Inc., subsidiary AOL-Time Warner Inc., filed suit against Microsoft January , Federal court the District Columbia, alleging violations antitrust and unfair competition laws and other tort claims relating Netscape and its Navigator browser. The complaint includes claims unlawful monopolization attempted monopolization alleged markets for operating systems and Web browsers, illegal tying operating systems and browsers, and tortuous interference with Netscape\x92 business relations. Netscape seeks injunctive relief, unquantified treble damages and its fees and costs. Microsoft denies these allegations and will vigorously defend this action. The case has been transferred for pretrial purposes the District Court Baltimore, Maryland and being coordinated with the overcharge class actions described above. Incorporated, former software development company whose assets were acquired Palm Incorporated August , filed suit against Microsoft February , Federal court San Francisco, alleging violations Federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws and other tort claims. alleges that Microsoft\x92 license agreements with computer manufacturers, pricing policies, and business practices interfered with \x92 relationships with computer manufacturers and discouraged them from adopting \x92 own operating system for their products. seeking unquantified treble and punitive damages for its alleged injuries along with its fees and costs. Microsoft denies these allegations and will vigorously defend this action. The case has been transferred for pretrial purposes the District Court Baltimore, Maryland and being coordinated with the overcharge class actions described above. March , , Sun Microsystems, Inc. filed suit against Microsoft alleging violations Federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws well claims under the Federal Copyright Act. Sun seeks injunctive relief and unspecified treble damages along with its fees and costs. Microsoft denies these allegations and will vigorously defend this action. The case has been transferred for pretrial purposes the District Court Baltimore, Maryland and being coordinated with the overcharge class actions described above. June , , Microsoft and the Securities and Exchange Commission entered into administrative settlement resolving non-public investigation certain Microsoft\x92 accounting and record keeping practices during fiscal years through (SEC File . - ). The settlement provides that Microsoft will not violate securities regulations that require companies make accurate filings and maintain sufficient records and controls. The settlement has impact the Company\x92 financial results. The Company also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course its business. Management currently believes that resolving all these matters will not have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial position its results operations. / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE SEGMENT INFORMATION Millions Year Ended June Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services Consumer Software, Services, and Devices Consumer Commerce Investments Other Reconciling Amounts Consolidated Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ $ , Operating income/(loss) , ( , ) ( ) ( , ) , Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ ( ) $ , Operating income/(loss) , ( , ) ( ) ( ) , Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ $ , Operating income/(loss) , ( , ) ( , ) , Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services Revenue: Millions Year Ended June Desktop Applications $ , $ , $ , Desktop Platforms , , , Desktop Software , , , Enterprise Software and Services , , , Total Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services $ , $ , $ , fiscal , Microsoft had four segments: Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services; Consumer Software, Services, and Devices; Consumer Commerce Investments; and Other. Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services operating segment includes Desktop Applications, Desktop Platforms, and Enterprise Software and Services. Desktop Applications include Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Visio; client access licenses for Windows Server and Windows Server, Exchange, and BackOffice; Microsoft Great Plains; and bCentral. Desktop Platforms include Windows Professional and Home, Windows Professional, Windows Workstation, Windows Millennium Edition (Windows ), Windows , and other desktop operating systems. Enterprise Software and Services includes Server Platforms; Server Applications; developer tools and services; and Enterprise services. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices operating segment includes Xbox video game system, MSN Internet access, MSN network services, and online games, learning and productivity software, mobility, and embedded systems. Consumer Commerce Investments operating segment includes Expedia, Inc., the HomeAdvisor online real estate service, and the CarPoint online automotive service. Other primarily includes Hardware and Microsoft Press. Segment information presented accordance with SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information. This standard based management approach, which requires segmentation based upon the Company\x92 internal organization and disclosure revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. The Company\x92 financial reporting systems present various data for management run the business, including internal profit and loss statements ( & ) prepared basis not consistent with . generally accepted accounting principles. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. Reconciling items for revenue include certain elements unearned revenue and the treatment certain channel inventory amounts and estimates. addition the reconciling items for revenue, reconciling items for operating income/(loss) include general and administrative expenses ($ billion , $ million , and $ billion ), certain research expenses ($ million , $ million , and $ million ), and other corporate level adjustments. The internal & use accelerated methods depreciation and amortization. Additionally, losses equity investees and minority interests are classified operating income for internal reporting presentations. / MSFT FORM - Part Item Revenue attributable . operations includes shipments customers the United States, licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations, and exports finished goods, primarily Asia, Latin America, and Canada. Revenue from . operations totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Revenue from outside the United States, excluding licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations and . exports, totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . single customer accounted for % more revenue , , . Long-lived assets (principally property and equipment) totaled $ billion and $ billion the United States and and $ million and $ million other countries and . NOTE SUBSEQUENT EVENT July , , Microsoft acquired Navision result the successful close tender offer. Microsoft purchased Navision\x92 shares for approximately $ billion stock and cash. Navision provider integrated business software solutions for small and medium-sized companies. The purchase price allocation currently being developed for this acquisition. QUARTERLY INFORMATION millions, except per share amounts (Unaudited) Quarter Ended Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , Basic earnings per share ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ) Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per basic share and $ per diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . . ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. and $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. / MSFT FORM - Part Item , INDEPENDENT AUDITORS\x92 REPORT the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. described Note the financial statements, the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , effective July , , and Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , effective July , . / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Deloitte & Touche LLP Seattle, Washington July , ITEM . CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES None. / MSFT FORM - Part III Item , , , PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS THE REGISTRANT Information with respect Directors may found under the caption \x93Election Directors and Management Information\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Such information incorporated herein reference. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation\x94 and \x93Information Regarding the Board and its Committees\x94 incorporated herein reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION Millions, Except Per Share Amounts June , ( ) ( ) ( ) Plan category Number securities issued upon exercise outstanding options, warrants and rights Weighted-average exercise price outstanding options, warrants and rights Number securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved security holders $ Equity compensation plans not approved security holders \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ The information set forth under the caption \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth under the captions \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. / MSFT FORM - Part Item PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed reports Form - during the quarter ended June , . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington Form Indemnification Agreement Resignation Agreement between Richard Belluzzo and Microsoft Corporation . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\x92 Consent Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . / MSFT FORM - Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title / / ILLIAM . ATES , III William . Gates, III Chairman the Board Directors and Chief Software Architect / / TEVEN . ALLMER Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer / / AMES . ASH , . James . Cash, . Director / / AYMOND . ILMARTIN Raymond . Gilmartin Director / / AUGHLIN OROLOGOS Ann McLaughlin Korologos Director / / AVID . ARQUARDT David . Marquardt Director / / . . EED , . . . Reed, . Director / / . HIRLEY Jon . Shirley Director / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) CERTIFICATIONS , Steven . Ballmer, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Microsoft Corporation; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; and . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report. Date: September , / / TEVEN . ALLMER Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer , John . Connors, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Microsoft Corporation; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; and . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report. Date: September , / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Chief Financial Officer / MSFT FORM - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Number Description Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington Form Indemnification Agreement Resignation Agreement between Richard Belluzzo and Microsoft Corporation . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\x92 Consent Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . FORM -', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES The Company\x92 corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington, which million square feet corporate campus space situated slightly more than acres land owned and approximately million square feet leased. The Company constructing three buildings with approximately , square feet space that will occupied the Fall . accommodate expansion needs the Company purchased approximately acres, and has option purchase approximately additional acres, land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet additional office space. The Company leases many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. The Company leases many sites internationally totaling approximately million square feet, including the Company\x92 European Operations Center and localization division which leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico and , square-foot facility Singapore for the Company\x92 Asia Pacific Operations Center. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; United Kingdom campus , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; and Beijing, China , square feet. The Company\x92 facilities are fully used for current operations all segments and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note \x97Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding legal proceedings. ', 'item 4. ': 'SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . / MSFT FORM - Part Item EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT The executive officers Microsoft July , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates, III Chairman the Board; Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer James . Allchin Group Vice President, Platforms Group Orlando Ayala Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Services Group Robert . (Robbie) Bach Senior Vice President, Games Division Douglas . Burgum Senior Vice President, Business Solutions David . Cole Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Jon Stephan DeVaan Senior Vice President, Division Richard . Emerson Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy Paul Flessner Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Servers Kevin . Johnson Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas Robert . Muglia Senior Vice President, Enterprise Storage Division Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services Richard . Rashid Senior Vice President, Research Eric . Rudder Senior Vice President, Developer and Platform Evangelism Steven . Sinofsky Senior Vice President, Office Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President and General Counsel Brian Valentine Senior Vice President, Windows David Vaskevitch Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Business Platform Deborah . Willingham Senior Vice President, Human Resources . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman the Board since the Company\x92 incorporation. . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms Group December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Ayala was named Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Services Group August . had been Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas since February , and before holding that position, was Vice President the developing markets Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. joined Microsoft Senior Director the Latin America Region. . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Games Division March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Burgum joined the Company upon Microsoft\x92 acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. April . . Burgum became Great Plains\x92 first outside investor March . was named President Great Plains and subsequently named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. . Cole was named Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group November . Before holding that position, had been Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division since August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December and Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . Previously, was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Connors was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer December . had been Vice President, Enterprise since March . . Connors had been Vice President, Information Technology, and Chief Information Officer since July . joined Microsoft . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa July . had been Vice President, Customer Marketing since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President Microsoft Europe since and General Manager for Microsoft France since . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . DeVaan was named Senior Vice President, Division December . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since September . . DeVaan had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications since . . DeVaan joined Microsoft . / MSFT FORM - Part Item . Emerson joined Microsoft November Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy. Prior joining Microsoft, was Managing Director and -head Technology and Telecommunications Advisory Services international investment bank Lazard Freres & . LLC. spent years San Francisco and New York with Lazard and Morgan Stanley, specializing advising clients the technology and telecommunications sectors mergers, acquisitions, and strategic partnerships. . Flessner was named Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Servers December . had been Vice President, Database and Data Access. Since joining the Company, . Flessner\x92 primary responsibilities have been the development Microsoft\x92 database business. joined Microsoft . . Johnson was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas February . had been Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August , and before that, Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. . Johnson was named Vice President, Product Support Services July . joined Microsoft . . Muglia was named Senior Vice President, Enterprise Storage Division November . Before holding that position, had been Group Vice President, Personal Services Group since August . had been Group Vice President, Business Productivity since December . was named Senior Vice President, Business Productivity March and was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools February . had been Vice President, Server Applications since . joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services August . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . Before holding that position, had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Rashid was named Senior Vice President, Research May . had been Vice President, Research since July . joined Microsoft . . Rudder was named Senior Vice President, Developer and Platform Evangelism October . had been Vice President, Technical Strategy. . Rudder joined Microsoft and has worked several areas, including networking, operating systems and developer tools, where previously served General Manager for the Visual Studio development system. . Sinofsky was named Senior Vice President, Office December . had been Vice President, Office since December . . Sinofsky joined the Office team , increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release the desktop suite. joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President and General Counsel November . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the Company\x92 European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . . Valentine was named Senior Vice President, Windows December . had been Vice President, Business and Enterprise since March . had been Vice President, Windows since December . Before managing the Windows group, . Valentine managed the server applications division and had been responsible for the Exchange product unit. joined Microsoft . . Vaskevitch was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Business Platform August . was named Senior Vice President, Business Applications March . had been Senior Vice President, Developer since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Distributed Applications Platform. joined Microsoft . . Willingham was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources February . She had been Vice President, Human Resources since April . . Willingham had been Vice President, Business and Enterprise Division Marketing and was responsible for Windows operating system client and server marketing strategy and training, well for providing centralized marketing services for the Consumer Windows Marketing and Streaming Media Marketing teams. She joined Microsoft . / MSFT FORM - Part Item , PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The Company\x92 common stock traded The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. June , , there were , registered holders record the Company\x92 common stock. The Company has not paid cash dividends its common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS millions, except earnings per share Year Ended June ( ) ( ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share before accounting change Diluted earnings per share Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , ( ) Fiscal year includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . , and $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments, primarily cable and telecommunication investments. ( ) Fiscal year includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments, primarily related the Company\x92 & investment and further declines the fair values European cable and telecommunications holdings, and $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. / MSFT FORM - Part Item ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS RESULTS OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR , , AND Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because factors discussed \x93Issues and Uncertainties.\x94 REVENUE The Company\x92 revenue growth rate was % fiscal , % fiscal , and % fiscal . Revenue growth fiscal was led the addition Xbox video game system revenue and the strong penetration Microsoft Windows Professional and Home operating systems. Revenue growth fiscal was driven primarily licensing Microsoft Windows Professional, Microsoft SQL Server, and the other NET Enterprise Servers. Revenue growth fiscal was driven strong licensing Microsoft Windows Workstation, Windows Professional, Windows Server, Windows Server, Microsoft Office , and SQL Server. Microsoft continued see mix shift volume licensing programs. October , , Microsoft launched Licensing simplify and improve its volume licensing programs, including simplified approach software upgrades. One feature Licensing Software Assurance which gives customers the right install any new release products covered the licensing agreement during the term their coverage. The success Microsoft\x92 new volume licensing programs will continue affect the mix multi-year licensing agreements with resulting impact the timing revenue recognition. addition, the timing and extent recovery consumer and corporate spending PCs and information technology ( ) will factors affecting revenue growth. PRODUCT REVENUE fiscal , Microsoft had four segments: Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services; Consumer Software, Services, and Devices; Consumer Commerce Investments; and Other. The revenue figures this Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis ( & ) differ from those reported the Company\x92 Segment Information appearing Note the Notes Financial Statements. The revenue figures the Segment Information represent amounts reported internally for management reporting, while the revenue figures the & reflect revenue recognized accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. July , , Microsoft revised its product segments and will begin reporting the new segments fiscal . Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services . Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services includes Desktop Applications; Desktop Platforms; and Enterprise Software and Services. Desktop Applications revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop Applications includes revenue from Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Visio; client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server and Windows Server, Exchange, and BackOffice; Microsoft Great Plains; and bCentral. fiscal , Office licensing revenue declined during the year due strong mix shift multi-year annuity licensing agreements, which deferred revenue recognition future years, and decrease consumer purchases the Asia region, most notably Japan, partially offset strong OEM licensing. Revenue from client access licenses grew % fiscal and revenue from Great Plains contributed the growth Desktop Applications. fiscal , revenue from client access licenses increased % reflecting strong licensing growth Windows Server and Windows Server CALs. Office revenue growth was flat during fiscal . fiscal , revenue growth from Microsoft Office integrated suites, including the Premium, Professional, Small Business, and Standard Editions was very solid. Desktop Platforms revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop Platforms includes revenue from Windows Professional and Home, Windows Professional, Windows Workstation, Windows , Windows , and other desktop operating systems. fiscal , the growth Desktop Platforms revenue reflected strong multi-year licensing revenue growth and continued mix shift the higher priced Windows and Windows Professional operating system through OEMs, despite decline reported OEM unit shipments. Fiscal revenue growth reflected the strong adoption Windows Professional, partially offset flat revenue growth from Windows and Windows operating systems, reflecting the slowdown consumer shipments and higher mix Windows Professional and Windows Workstation. fiscal , Desktop Platforms revenue growth was modest due soft demand for business PCs during most the year; slowdown shipments anticipation the post mid-year availability Windows operating systems; and, expected, longer business migration cycle for the newest Windows operating system offerings. The rate growth shipments and the mix Windows and Windows Professional percentage all -bit operating systems will continue impact revenue growth the future. Enterprise Software and Services revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Enterprise Software and Services includes Server Platforms, Server Applications, Developer Tools and Services, and Enterprise Services. fiscal , Server Applications, including Microsoft SQL Server and NET Enterprise Servers, increased % compared fiscal . Server Platform revenue, which includes Windows Server and Windows Server operating systems, increased % versus fiscal driven modest overall increase Windows-based server shipments and increased deployment Windows Server. Enterprise Services revenue, representing consulting and product support services, was % compared fiscal , while revenue from Developer Tools and Services was down % from fiscal . fiscal , Server Applications revenue increased % versus the prior year result / MSFT FORM - Part Item the continued adoption Microsoft\x92 NET Enterprise Server offerings. Enterprise Services revenue fiscal , was % compared fiscal and Server Platforms increased % while revenue from Developer Tools and Services was flat. fiscal , Server Platforms revenue growth was particularly strong led increased adoption customers Windows Server and Windows Server. Revenue from Server Applications grew strongly fiscal , largely due the strong success SQL Server , while Software Developer Tools and Services revenue declined, due increased suite licensing versus stand-alone licenses, and the lack release upgrade the Visual Studio development system. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Consumer Software, Services, and Devices includes the Xbox video game system; MSN Internet access; MSN network service; and online games; learning and productivity software; mobility; and embedded systems. The majority the revenue growth from fiscal stemmed from sales the Xbox video game system released fiscal . MSN Internet access revenue increased result both higher subscriber base and higher average revenue per subscriber due reduction promotional subscriber programs. Revenue from MSN network services increased despite declining Internet advertising market. Revenue from embedded systems fiscal grew nicely, however learning and productivity software revenue and and online games declined compared fiscal . fiscal , revenue from MSN network services grew strongly despite decline the online advertising market. MSN Internet access revenue also grew solidly from fiscal result increased subscriber base, partially offset decline the average revenue per subscriber due larger mix subscribers contracted under rebate programs. Revenue from embedded systems grew strongly from the prior year, while learning and productivity software revenue and and online games revenue declined, reflecting softness the overall consumer market. fiscal , online revenue growth was very strong and reflected higher subscriber totals, offset lower net prices for Internet access subscriptions compared the prior year. Additionally, strong sales entertainment software fiscal produced robust revenue growth and online games. Consumer Commerce Investments. Consumer Commerce Investments revenue was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Consumer Commerce Investments include Expedia, Inc., the HomeAdvisor online real estate service, and the CarPoint online automotive service. The decline revenue compared fiscal reflects the sale Microsoft\x92 majority ownership Expedia, Inc. USA Networks, Inc. February , . Acquisitions Travelscape com and VacationSpot com Expedia, Inc., and increased product offerings from Expedia led the strong revenue growth fiscal . The increased overall reach all properties led the strong revenue growth fiscal . Other. Other revenue, which primarily includes Hardware and Microsoft Press, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . fiscal , continued declines the book and consumer market led decline Microsoft Press and Hardware sales. Lower sales gaming devices and other hardware peripherals result weakness the consumer market caused the decline revenue fiscal . Continued success the Company\x92 new hardware device offerings led revenue growth fiscal . DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS Microsoft distributes its products primarily through the following channels: OEM; volume licensing; online services and products; and distributors and retailers. OEM channel revenue represents license fees from original equipment manufacturers who preinstall Microsoft products, primarily PCs. Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing regions: the South Pacific and Americas Region; the Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region; and the Asia Region. Sales volume licenses and packaged software products via these channels are primarily distributors and resellers. OEM revenue was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . fiscal , reported licenses declined compared fiscal . However, strong increase the mix the higher priced Windows and Windows Professional licenses, and healthy growth direct and system builder OEMs licenses, led higher average revenue per license and contributed the overall OEM revenue growth over fiscal . fiscal , while total licenses were also impacted slowdown shipments, the mix the higher priced Windows Professional and Windows Workstation increased substantially resulting higher average revenue per license. relatively low growth rate fiscal was due lower business shipment growth combined with post mid-year availability Windows Professional. Average earned revenue per license also declined fiscal compared the prior year, due part mix shift the lower-priced Windows operating system reflecting the softness demand for business PCs and lower prices operating systems licensed through certain OEM channel sectors. South Pacific and Americas Region revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . fiscal , the majority the revenue growth was driven sales the Xbox video game system released during the year, well strong Windows Professional licensing, MSN subscription revenue, and revenue from Microsoft Great Plains. fiscal , revenue growth was led strong licensing Windows Professional and the family NET Enterprise Servers, particularly SQL Server and Exchange Server. Revenue from Enterprise services and MSN subscription and services also grew strongly fiscal . fiscal , Office integrated suites, Windows Server, online revenue, and SQL Server sales were the primary drivers the revenue growth. Strong retail sales hardware devices and consumer software also contributed the growth over the prior year. Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . fiscal , the majority the growth was result strong multi-year licensing revenue Windows Home and Professional operating systems and Enterprise Software, well the addition Xbox video game system revenue the second half the year. fiscal , weakening local currencies negatively impacted translated revenue compared the prior year, while revenue from Windows Professional and the NET Enterprise Server family products was very healthy. fiscal , retail sales Windows operating systems and / MSFT FORM - Part Item Office licensing produced moderate growth the region. Growth from SQL Server licensing, new hardware device offerings, and entertainment software was especially strong. Asia Region revenue was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . fiscal , Asia region revenue declined most notably due lower consumer shipments, which hampered revenue from localized versions Microsoft Office and Microsoft Office , especially the Office Personal Edition. Xbox video game system sales partially offset the decline Office revenue. fiscal , the region\x92 growth rate reflected strong revenue from localized versions Microsoft Office and Microsoft Office , especially the Office Personal Edition. This growth was also attributable Windows Professional and NET Server applications licensing. fiscal , the region\x92 growth rate reflected strong performance resulting from improved local economic conditions. Revenue growth was also influenced robust growth localized versions Microsoft Office , especially the Office Personal Edition sold Japan, Windows platform and server licensing, and strong adoption SQL Server. The Company\x92 operating results are affected foreign exchange rates. Approximately %, %, and % the Company\x92 revenue was collected foreign currencies during , , and . Since portion local currency revenue hedged and much the Company\x92 international manufacturing costs and operating expenses are also incurred local currencies, the impact exchange rates partially mitigated. OPERATING EXPENSES Cost Revenue . Cost revenue percent revenue was % , % , and % . Cost revenue fiscal increased primarily due costs related Xbox. fiscal , higher support and service costs associated with the MSN Internet access and MSN network services were partially offset the lower relative costs associated with organizational licensing and the drop the mix packaged product versus the prior year. Cost revenue fiscal reflected lower costs associated with WebTV Networks\x92 operations, partially offset the growth hardware peripherals costs. Research and Development. The discontinuation goodwill amortization fiscal accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, offset the growth headcount and development costs. fiscal , the increase & expense was the result higher headcount-related costs and investments new product initiatives. The increase fiscal was driven primarily higher headcount-related costs. Prospectively, increased headcount and increased spending Server Platforms, Home & Entertainment, Business Solutions and are currently expected significant factors affecting future research and development expense growth. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense percentage revenue was % , % , and % . fiscal , sales and marketing expense percentage revenue decreased due lower relative MSN customer acquisition marketing and the large relative increase associated with the onset Xbox video game system revenue. fiscal , sales and marketing expenses percentage revenue increased due higher relative headcount-related costs, higher marketing and sales expenses associated with MSN, the Microsoft Agility advertising campaign, and other new sales initiatives. fiscal , sales and marketing expenses percentage revenue increased due higher relative marketing costs associated with new product releases and online marketing. Microsoft expects that will increase spending Information Worker, Server Platforms, and Business Solutions sales forces and Windows Client, MSN and Home & Entertainment marketing. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses fiscal increased due charge approximately $ million for estimated expenses related the Company\x92 consumer class action lawsuits and higher legal fees. fiscal , general and administrative costs decreased due charge related the settlement the lawsuit with Caldera, Inc. recorded fiscal . Excluding this charge fiscal , general and administrative expenses fiscal increased from the prior year due higher headcount-related costs and legal fees. For fiscal , besides the settlement the lawsuit, general and administrative expenses also reflected increased legal fees and certain employee stock option-related expenses. NON-OPERATING ITEMS, INVESTMENT INCOME/(LOSS), AND INCOME TAXES Losses equity investees and other consists Microsoft\x92 share income loss from investments accounted for using the equity method, and income loss attributable minority interests. The decrease losses equity investees and other fiscal was attributed the divestiture certain equity investments fiscal . The increase losses equity investees and other fiscal reflects increase the number such investments during the year. fiscal losses equity investees and other decreased reflecting smaller losses from the MSNBC entities. / MSFT FORM - Part Item The Company recorded net investment income/(loss) each year follows: Millions Year Ended June Dividends $ $ $ Interest , , , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments: Net gains the sales investments , , , Other-than-temporary impairments ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Net unrealized losses attributable derivative instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains/(losses) investments , ( , ) ( , ) Investment income/(loss) $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments primarily related the Company\x92 investment & and other cable and telecommunication investments. Net gains the sales investments included $ billion gain the sale the Company\x92 share Expedia. Interest and dividend income decreased $ million from fiscal result lower interest rates and dividend income. fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments primarily related cable and telecommunication investments. Net gains from the sales investments fiscal included gain from Microsoft\x92 investment Titus Communications (which was merged with Jupiter Telecommunications) and the closing the sale Transpoint CheckFree Holdings Corp. Interest and dividend income increased $ million from fiscal , reflecting larger investment portfolio. fiscal year , investment income increased primarily result larger investment portfolio generated cash from operations coupled with realized gains from the sale securities. June , , unrealized losses Equity and Other Investments $ million were deemed temporary nature. The following, among other factors, could result some investments being deemed other-than-temporarily impaired future periods: changes the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost; the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors; and the Company\x92 intent and ability hold the investment. connection with the definitive agreement combine & Broadband with Comcast new company called & Comcast Corporation, Microsoft has agreed exchange its & % convertible preferred debt securities for approximately million shares & Comcast Corporation. expected that the transaction will close December , . While possible that Microsoft could incur loss this exchange transaction the carrying value the & debt securities, management believes that the ultimate loss, any, will significantly less. management unable predict whether there will gain loss the exchange, loss has been recorded related this contingent exchange transaction June , . The Company\x92 effective tax rate for fiscal was %. The effective tax rate for fiscal and fiscal was % and %, respectively. The decrease the effective tax rate due primarily lower taxes foreign earnings. ACCOUNTING CHANGES Effective July , , Microsoft adopted SFAS , Business Combinations, and SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS requires business combinations accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separate from goodwill. SFAS requires that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. There was impairment goodwill upon adoption SFAS . Goodwill amortization ( pre-tax basis) was $ million fiscal and $ million fiscal . Effective July , , Microsoft adopted SFAS , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. The adoption SFAS resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax reduction other comprehensive income (OCI) $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset the reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. FINANCIAL CONDITION The Company\x92 cash and short-term investment portfolio totaled $ billion June , . The portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Microsoft\x92 investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. / MSFT FORM - Part Item Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . The increase reflects strong growth unearned revenue. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from the prior year. The decrease reflects the repurchase put warrants the prior year. The Company repurchased million shares common stock under its share repurchase program fiscal , compared million shares repurchased the prior year. addition, million shares common stock were acquired fiscal under structured stock repurchase transaction. The Company entered into the structured stock repurchase transaction fiscal , giving the right acquire million its shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . Cash flow from operations was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable the growth revenue and other changes working capital, partially offset the decrease the stock option income tax benefit, reflecting decreased stock option exercises employees. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase primarily reflects the repurchase put warrants fiscal , compared the sale put warrants the prior fiscal year, well increase common stock repurchased. All outstanding put warrants were either retired exercised during fiscal . During fiscal , the Company repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. fiscal , cash flow from operations was $ billion, decrease $ million from the prior year, reflecting working capital changes partially offset the increase the stock option income tax benefit. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year, reflecting increase common stock repurchased versus the prior year. During fiscal , the Company repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. Microsoft has material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , was $ billion. Microsoft will continue invest sales, marketing, and product support infrastructure. Additionally, research and development activities will include investments existing and advanced areas technology, including using cash acquire technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for & , sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . The Company has not engaged any transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely affect materially liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. Since fiscal , Microsoft has repurchased million common shares while billion shares were issued under the Company\x92 employee stock option and purchase plans. The Company\x92 convertible preferred stock matured December , . Each preferred share was converted into common shares. Management believes existing cash and short-term investments together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements. The Company\x92 cash and short-term investments are available for strategic investments, mergers and acquisitions, other potential large-scale needs and fund the share repurchase program. Microsoft has not paid cash dividends its common stock. SUBSEQUENT EVENT July , , Microsoft acquired Navision result the successful close tender offer. Microsoft purchased Navision\x92 shares for approximately $ billion stock and cash. Navision provider integrated business software solutions for small and medium-sized companies. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Microsoft\x92 financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with generally accepted accounting principles the United States. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for Microsoft include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, and accounting for income taxes. Microsoft accounts for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Software Revenue Recognition. The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) fair value exists for those elements. End users receive certain elements the Company\x92 products over period time. These elements include browser technologies updates and technical support, the fair value which recognized over the product\x92 estimated life cycle. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities, provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired, which also requires judgment. making this judgment, Microsoft evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent which the fair value investment less than its cost; the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including factors such industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow; and the Company\x92 intent and ability hold the investment. Microsoft accounts for research and development costs accordance with several accounting pronouncements, including SFAS , Accounting for Research and Development Costs, and SFAS , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Other- / MSFT FORM - Part Item wise Marketed. SFAS specifies that costs incurred internally creating computer software product should charged expense when incurred research and development until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when the technological feasibility product established. Microsoft has determined that technological feasibility for its products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, the Company expenses all research and development costs when incurred. Microsoft subject various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes which are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies, requires that estimated loss from loss contingency should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. The Company evaluates, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact the Company\x92 financial position its results operations. SFAS , Accounting for Income Taxes, establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized the Company\x92 financial statements tax returns. Fluctuations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact the Company\x92 financial position its results operations. ISSUES AND UNCERTAINTIES The following issues and uncertainties, among others, should considered evaluating the Company\x92 financial outlook. Challenges the Company\x92 Business Model. Since its inception, the Company\x92 business model has been based upon customers agreeing pay fee license software developed and distributed Microsoft. Under this commercial software development (\x93CSD\x94) model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenues received from the distribution their products. The Company believes that the CSD model has had substantial benefits for users software, allowing them rely the expertise the Company and other software developers that have powerful incentives develop innovative software that useful, reliable and compatible with other software and hardware. recent years, there has been growing challenge the CSD model, often referred the Open Source movement. Under the Open Source model, software produced global \x93communities\x94 programmers, and the resulting software and the intellectual property contained therein licensed end users little cost. The Company believes that there are significant problems with the Open Source model, the principal drawback being that single entity responsible for the Open Source software, and thus users have recourse product does not work properly all. Further, without the market incentives associated with the CSD model, the Company believes that the vigorous innovation and growth the software industry over the last years would not have occurred. Nonetheless, the popularization the Open Source movement continues pose significant challenge the Company\x92 business model, including recent efforts proponents the Open Source model convince governments worldwide mandate the use Open Source software their purchase and deployment software products. the extent the Open Source model gains increasing market acceptance, sales the Company\x92 products may decline, the Company may have reduce the prices charges for its products, and revenues and operating margins may consequently decline. New Products and Services. The Company has made significant investments research and development for new products, services and technologies, including Microsoft NET, Xbox, business applications, MSN, mobile and wireless technologies, and television. Significant revenue from these investments may not achieved for number years, all. Moreover, these products and services may never profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for these businesses are not expected high the margins historically experienced our Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services businesses. Declines Demand for Software. overall market demand for PCs, servers and other computing devices declines significantly, and consumer and corporate spending for such products declines, Microsoft\x92 revenue growth will adversely affected. Additionally, the Company\x92 revenues would unfavorably impacted customers reduce their purchases new software products upgrades existing products such new offerings are not perceived add significant new functionality other value prospective purchasers. Product Development Schedule. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new product releases significant problems creating new products could negatively impact the Company\x92 revenues. International Operations. Microsoft develops and sells products throughout the world. The prices the Company\x92 products countries outside the United States are generally higher than the Company\x92 prices the United States because the cost incurred localizing software for non- . markets. The costs producing and selling the Company\x92 products these countries also are higher. Pressure globalize Microsoft\x92 pricing structure might require that the Company reduce the sales price its software other countries, even though the costs the software continue higher than the United States. Unfavorable changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region, including foreign exchange rates; difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; and potential adverse foreign tax consequences, among other factors, could also have negative effect the Company\x92 business and results operations outside the United States. / MSFT FORM - Part Item Intellectual Property Rights. Microsoft diligently defends its intellectual property rights, but unlicensed copying and use software represents loss revenue the Company. While this adversely affects . revenue, revenue loss even more significant outside the United States, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Throughout the world, Microsoft actively educates consumers the benefits licensing genuine products and educates lawmakers the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued efforts may not affect revenue positively and further deterioration compliance with existing legal protections reductions the legal protection for intellectual property rights software developers could adversely affect revenue. Taxation Extraterritorial Income. August , World Trade Organization (\x93WTO\x94) dispute panel determined that the extraterritorial tax (\x93ETI\x94) provisions the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act constitute export subsidy prohibited the WTO Agreement Subsidies and Countervailing Measures Agreement. The . government appealed the panel\x92 decision and lost its appeal. January , , the WTO Dispute Settlement Body adopted the Appellate Body report. President Bush has stated the . will bring its tax laws into compliance with the WTO ruling, but the Administration and Congress have not decided solution for this issue. July , Representative Bill Thomas, Chairman the House Ways and Means Committee, introduced the American Competitiveness and Corporate Accountability Act . enacted, that bill would repeal the ETI regime and introduce broad-based international reform. The proposed reforms would not materially affect the Company. August , , WTO arbitration panel determined that the European Union may impose $ billion per year countermeasures the . rules are not brought into compliance. The WTO decision does not repeal the ETI tax benefit and does not require the European Union impose trade sanctions, not possible predict what impact the WTO decision will have future results pending final resolution these matters. the ETI exclusion repealed and replacement legislation not enacted, the loss tax benefit the Company could significant. Litigation. discussed Note \x97Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements, the Company subject variety claims and lawsuits. While the Company believes that none the litigation matters which the Company currently involved will have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial position results operations, possible that one more these matters could resolved manner that would ultimately have material adverse impact the business the Company, and could negatively impact its revenues and operating margins. ', 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company exposed foreign currency, interest rate, and equity price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact the Company\x92 results operations and financial position. The Company hedges the exposure accounts receivable and portion anticipated revenue foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. The Company monitors its foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness its foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed income securities are subject interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. The Company routinely uses options hedge its exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Many securities held the Company\x92 equity and other investments portfolio are subject price risk. The Company uses options hedge its price risk certain highly volatile equity securities. The Company uses value- -risk (VAR) model estimate and quantify its market risks. VAR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value the Company\x92 portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. The model used for currencies and equities geometric Brownian motion, which allow incorporation optionality these exposures. For interest rates, the mean reverting geometric Brownian motion used reflect the principle that fixed-income securities prices over time revert maturity value. Value- -risk calculated , first, simulating , market price paths over days for equities, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, taking into account historical correlations among the different rates and prices. Each resulting unique set equities prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates applied substantially all individual holdings -price each holding. The worst performance (out , ) represents the value- -risk over days the percentile. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. substantial amount the Company\x92 equity portfolio held for strategic purposes. The Company attempts hedge the value these securities through the use derivative contracts such collars. The Company has incurred substantial impairment charges related certain these securities fiscal and fiscal . Such impairment charges have been incurred primarily for strategic equity holdings that the Company has not been able hedge. The VAR amounts disclosed below are not necessarily reflective potential accounting losses, they are used risk management tool and reflect estimate potential reductions fair value the Company\x92 portfolio. Losses fair value over -day holding period can exceed the reported VAR significant amounts and can also accumulate over longer time horizon than the -day holding period used the VAR analysis. The VAR numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency, and equity risks. These VAR numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. Historical data used estimate VAR. Given reliance historical data, VAR most effective estimating risk exposures markets which there are fundamental changes shifts market conditions. inherent limitation VAR that the distribution past changes market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions future market risk. / MSFT FORM - Part Item , The following table sets forth the VAR calculations for substantially all the Company\x92 positions: Millions June , Year ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Interest rates $ $ $ $ $ Currency rates Equity prices The total VAR for the combined risk categories $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VAR % less June , and % less June, than the sum the separate risk categories for each those years the above table, due the diversification benefit the combination risks. The reasons for the change risk portfolios include: larger investment portfolio size, higher foreign exchange exposure due stronger non- . currencies, and asset allocation shifts. ', 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS millions, except earnings per share Year Ended June Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) , ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Income before accounting change , , , Cumulative effect accounting change (net income taxes $ ) \x96 ( ) \x96 Net income $ , $ , $ , Basic earnings per share: Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change \x96 ( ) \x96 $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share: Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change \x96 ( ) \x96 $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part Item BALANCE SHEETS millions June Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventories Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net Other long-term assets , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation , Income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Deferred income taxes Other long-term liabilities Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital\x97shares authorized , ; Shares issued and outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ and $ , , Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS millions Year Ended June Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax \x96 \x96 Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , , Net recognized (gains)/losses investments ( , ) , , Stock option income tax benefits , , , Deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( , ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities ( ) , Other long-term liabilities Net cash from operations , , , Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sales/(repurchases) put warrants ( , ) \x96 Preferred stock dividends ( ) \x96 \x96 Other, net \x96 \x96 Net cash used for financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( ) ( , ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , Sales investments , , , Net cash used for investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net change cash and equivalents ( ) ( ) ( ) Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning year , , , Cash and equivalents, end year $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS millions Year Ended June Convertible preferred stock Balance, beginning year $ $ \x96 $ \x96 Conversion preferred common stock ( ) \x96 \x96 Balance, end year \x96 \x96 \x96 Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning year , , , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Sales/(repurchases) put warrants ( , ) \x96 Stock option income tax benefits , , , Other, net \x96 ( ) Balance, end year , , , Retained earnings Balance, beginning year , , , Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Cumulative effect accounting change \x96 ( ) \x96 Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments \x96 ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) ( ) ( , ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Comprehensive income , , , Preferred stock dividends ( ) \x96 \x96 Immaterial pooling interests \x96 \x96 Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end year , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. PRINCIPLES CONSOLIDATION The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries (Microsoft). Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which Microsoft owns least % the voting securities are accounted for using the equity method, except for investments which the Company not able exercise significant influence over the investee, which case, the cost method accounting used. Issuances shares subsidiary are accounted for capital transactions. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies and product life cycles, and assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when the Company reaches technological feasibility for its products; the potential outcome the future tax consequences events that have been recognized the Company\x92 financial statements tax returns; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from these estimates and assumptions. FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited other comprehensive income (OCI). Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. REVENUE RECOGNITION Microsoft accounts for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Software Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue when ( ) persuasive evidence arrangement exists; ( ) delivery has occurred services have been rendered; (iii) the sales price fixed determinable; and ( ) collectibility reasonably assured. For software arrangements with multiple elements, revenue recognized dependent upon whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) fair value exists for each the elements. When VSOE does not exist for all the elements software arrangement and the only undelivered element postcontract customer support (PCS), the entire licensing fee recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue attributable undelivered elements, including technical support and Internet browser technologies, based the average sales price those elements when sold separately, and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the product\x92 life cycle. PCS and subscription revenue recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue from products licensed original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) based the licensing agreement with OEM and has historically been recognized when OEMs ship licensed products their customers. Licensing provisions were modified with the introduction Windows and revenue for certain products recorded upon shipment the product OEMs. The effect this change licensing provisions was not material. Revenue from packaged product sales distributors and resellers usually recorded when related products are shipped. However, when the revenue recognition criteria required for distributor and reseller arrangements are not met, revenue recognized payments are received. Revenue related the Company\x92 Xbox game console recognized upon shipment the product retailers. Online advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for certain products, are accrued. Provisions are recorded for estimated returns, concessions, and bad debts. COST REVENUE Cost revenue includes direct costs manufacture and distribute product and direct costs provide online services, consulting, product support, and training and certification system integrators. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Technological feasibility for Microsoft\x92 software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, the Company expenses all research and development costs when incurred. ADVERTISING COSTS Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . / MSFT FORM - Part Item INCOME TAXES Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect this difference reported deferred income taxes. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company considers all liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Short-term investments generally mature between three months and six years from the purchase date. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments include debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. Microsoft lends certain fixed income and equity securities enhance investment income. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. The fair value collateral that Microsoft permitted sell repledge was $ million both June , and . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. The Company employs systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment its investments. the event that the cost investment exceeds its fair value, the Company evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost; the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors; and the Company\x92 intent and ability hold the investment. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. , the Company recognized $ billion impairments certain investments, primarily the cable and telecommunication industries. , Microsoft recognized $ billion impairments certain investments, primarily related further declines the fair values . and European cable and telecommunications holdings. The Company uses derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, security price, and interest rate risks. The Company\x92 objectives for holding derivatives are minimize these risks using the most effective methods eliminate reduce the impact these exposures. Foreign Currency Risk. Certain forecasted transactions and assets are exposed foreign currency risk. The Company monitors its foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness its foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Options used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future are designated cash flow hedging instruments. Options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies. Securities Price Risk. Strategic equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, the Company uses and designates options hedge fair values and cash flows certain equity securities. The security, forecasted sale thereof, selected for hedging determined market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Once established, the hedges are not dynamically managed traded, and are generally not removed until maturity. Interest Rate Risk. Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. The Company routinely uses options, not designated hedging instruments, hedge its exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Other Derivatives. addition, the Company may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. For options designated either fair value cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness. ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects management\x92 best estimate probable losses inherent the account receivable balance. Management determines the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts follows: Millions Year Ended June Balance beginning period Charged costs and expenses Write-offs and other Balance end period $ $ $ $ / MSFT FORM - Part Item INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally not excess three years. GOODWILL Beginning fiscal with the adoption SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. Prior fiscal , goodwill was amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated period benefit. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from three seven years. The Company periodically evaluates the recoverability intangible assets and takes into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. All Microsoft\x92 intangible assets are subject amortization. RECLASSIFICATIONS Certain reclassifications have been made for consistent presentation. NOTE ACCOUNTING CHANGES Effective July , , the Company adopted SFAS , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. The adoption SFAS July , , resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax reduction OCI $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. The net derivative losses included OCI July , were reclassified into earnings during the twelve months ended June , . The change accounting from the adoption SFAS did not materially affect net income . Effective July , , Microsoft adopted SFAS , Business Combinations, and SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separate from goodwill. SFAS requires that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. There was impairment goodwill upon adoption SFAS . Net income and earnings per share for fiscal and fiscal adjusted exclude amortization expense (net taxes) follows: Millions, Except Earnings Per Share Year Ended June Net income: Reported net income $ , $ , Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization Adjusted net income $ , $ , Basic earnings per share: Reported basic earnings per share $ $ Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization \x96 \x96 Adjusted basic earnings per share $ $ Diluted earnings per share: Reported diluted earnings per share $ $ Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization \x96 \x96 Adjusted diluted earnings per share $ $ / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE UNEARNED REVENUE portion Microsoft\x92 revenue under volume licensing programs earned ratably over the period the license agreement. Also, revenue attributable undelivered elements, including technical support and Internet browser technologies, based the average sales price those elements when sold separately, and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recognized ratably for undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % for Windows Home, approximately % % for Windows Professional, and approximately % % for desktop applications, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three years for Windows operating systems and months for desktop applications. The components unearned revenue were follows: Millions June Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other Unearned revenue $ , $ , Unearned revenue product was follows: Millions June Desktop Applications $ , $ , Desktop Platforms , , Enterprise Software and Services Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services , , Consumer Software, Services, and Devices, and Other Unearned revenue $ , $ , the $ billion unearned revenue June , , $ billion expected recognized the first quarter fiscal , $ billion the second quarter fiscal , $ billion the third quarter fiscal , $ million the fourth quarter fiscal , and $ billion thereafter. / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE CASH AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS Millions June , Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and equivalents: Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , Commercial paper \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 . government and agency securities \x96 \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , \x96 \x96 , Municipal securities \x96 \x96 Cash and equivalents , \x96 \x96 , Short-term investments: Commercial paper \x96 . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , Municipal securities , \x96 , Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Short-term investments , ( ) , Cash and short-term investments $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Millions June , Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and equivalents: Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , Commercial paper \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Money market mutual funds \x96 \x96 Corporate notes and bonds \x96 \x96 Municipal securities \x96 \x96 Cash and equivalents , \x96 \x96 , Short-term investments: Commercial paper \x96 \x96 . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , Municipal securities , \x96 , Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Short-term investments , ( ) , Cash and short-term investments $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Realized gains and (losses) from cash and short-term investments were $ million and $( ) million , $ million and $( ) million , and $ million and $( ) million . / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE INVENTORIES Millions June Finished goods $ $ Raw materials and work process Inventories $ $ NOTE PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Millions June Land $ $ Buildings , , Computer equipment and software , , Other , , Property and equipment \x96 cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment \x96 net $ , $ , During , , and , depreciation expense, which the majority related computer equipment, was $ million, $ million, and $ million. NOTE EQUITY AND OTHER INVESTMENTS Millions June , Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ \x96 $ \x96 $ Between and years ( ) Between and years \x96 ( ) Beyond years , \x96 ( ) , Debt securities recorded market , ( ) , Common stock and warrants , , ( ) , Preferred stock \x96 \x96 Other investments \x96 \x96 Equity and other investments $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , / MSFT FORM - Part Item Millions June , Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ $ \x96 $ Between and years ( ) Between and years ( ) Beyond years , \x96 \x96 , Debt securities recorded market , ( ) , Common stock and warrants , , ( ) , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 Equity and other investments $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Debt securities include corporate and government notes and bonds and derivative securities. Debt securities maturing beyond years are composed entirely & % convertible preferred debt with contractual maturity years. The debt convertible the Company\x92 option into & common stock after December , , may redeemed & upon satisfaction certain conditions after June , . connection with the definitive agreement combine & Broadband with Comcast new company called & Comcast Corporation, Microsoft has agreed exchange its & % convertible preferred debt securities for approximately million shares & Comcast Corporation. expected that the transaction will close December , . While possible that Microsoft could incur loss this exchange transaction the carrying value the & debt securities, management believes that the ultimate loss, any, will significantly less. management unable predict whether there will gain loss the exchange, loss has been recorded related this contingent exchange transaction June , . Equity securities that are restricted for more than one year not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , the estimated fair value these investments excess their recorded basis was $ million. June , the recorded basis these investments excess their estimated fair value was $ million. This excess cost over estimated fair value was deemed temporary nature. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. Realized gains and (losses) from equity and other investments (excluding impairments discussed previously) were $ billion and $( ) million , $ billion and $( ) million , and $ billion and $( ) million . NOTE GOODWILL During fiscal , goodwill was reduced $ million, principally connection with Microsoft\x92 exchange all its million shares and warrants Expedia, Inc. USA Networks, Inc. goodwill was acquired impaired during fiscal . June , , Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services goodwill was $ billion, Consumer Software, Services, and Devices goodwill was $ million, and Consumer Commerce Investments goodwill was $ million. NOTE INTANGIBLE ASSETS During fiscal , changes intangible assets primarily relates the Company\x92 acquisition $ million patents and licenses and $ million existing technology, which will amortized over approximately years. significant residual value estimated for these intangible assets. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal and $ million for fiscal . The components intangible assets were follows: Millions June Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Patents and licenses $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Existing technology ( ) ( ) Trademarks, tradenames and other ( ) ( ) Intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Amortization expense for the net carrying amount intangible assets June , estimated $ million fiscal , $ million fiscal , $ million fiscal , and $ million fiscal . / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE DERIVATIVES For fiscal , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million gain for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million loss for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. For fiscal , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million gain for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million net loss for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). The derivative losses reclassified investment income/(loss) were offset gains the item being hedged. The Company estimates that $ million net derivative gains included other comprehensive income will reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. For instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS , had impact earnings for the fiscal and . fair value hedges cash flow hedges were derecognized discontinued for fiscal and . NOTE INVESTMENT INCOME/(LOSS) The components investment income/(loss) are follows: Millions Year Ended June Dividends $ $ $ Interest , , , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments: Net gains the sales investments , , , Other-than-temporary impairments ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Net unrealized losses attributable derivative instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains/(losses) investments , ( , ) ( , ) Investment income/(loss) $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) NOTE INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes consisted : Millions Year Ended June Current taxes: . and state $ , $ , $ , International Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , . and international components income before income taxes were: Millions Year Ended June . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , / MSFT FORM - Part Item , the effective tax rate was %, and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for tax credits and % increase for other items. , the effective tax rate was %, and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for tax credits and % increase for other items. The effective tax rate was %, and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for the extraterritorial income exclusion tax benefit and % reduction for other items. Deferred income taxes were: Millions June Deferred income tax assets: Revenue items $ , $ , Expense items Impaired investments , , Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: Unrealized gain investments $ ( ) $ ( ) International earnings ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Microsoft has not provided for . deferred income taxes foreign withholding taxes $ million its undistributed earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries, all which relate fiscal earnings, since these earnings are intended reinvested indefinitely. September , , the . Tax Court issued adverse ruling with respect Microsoft\x92 claim that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) incorrectly assessed taxes for and . The Company has filed appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals this matter. Income taxes, except for items related the and assessments, have been settled with the IRS for all years through . The IRS examining the Company\x92 through . income tax returns. Management believes any adjustments which may required will not material the financial statements. Income taxes paid were $ million , $ billion , and $ billion . NOTE STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares common stock outstanding were follows: Millions Year Ended June Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , The Company repurchases its common shares the open market provide shares for issuance employees under stock option and stock purchase plans. , the Company acquired million its shares result structured stock repurchase transaction entered into , which gave the right acquire such shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. enhance its stock repurchase program, Microsoft has sold put warrants independent third parties. These put warrants entitled the holders sell shares Microsoft common stock the Company certain dates specified prices. the third quarter fiscal , the Company issued million shares settle portion the outstanding put warrants. June , and , there were outstanding put warrants. During , Microsoft issued million shares % convertible exchangeable principal-protected preferred stock. The Company\x92 convertible preferred stock matured December , . Each preferred share was converted into common shares. / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Millions Year Ended June Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax effect $( ) $ \x96 $ ( ) $ \x96 Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments: Unrealized gains, net tax effect $ and $ \x96 Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $ and $( ) \x96 ( ) Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments \x96 ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/(losses): Unrealized holding gains/(losses), net tax effect $ , $( ) , and $( ) ( , ) ( , ) Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $ ( ) ( ) , Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) ( ) ( , ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) The components accumulated other comprehensive income were: Millions June Net gains derivative instruments $ $ Net unrealized investment gains Translation adjustments and other ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income $ $ NOTE EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN The Company has employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares the Company\x92 common stock may purchased six-month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During , , and , employees purchased million, million, and million shares average prices $ , $ , and $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. SAVINGS PLAN The Company has savings plan, which qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Participating employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. The Company contributes fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . STOCK OPTION PLANS The Company has stock option plans for directors, officers, and employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options. Options granted prior generally vest over four and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire after years. Options granted during vest over four and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. June , , options for million shares were vested and million shares were available for future grants under the plans. / MSFT FORM - Part Item Stock options outstanding were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Price per Share Shares Range Weighted Average Balance, June , $ \x96 $ $ Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , \x96 For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics outstanding stock options June , were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Range Exercise Prices Shares Remaining Life (Years) Weighted Average Price Shares Weighted Average Price $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 The Company follows Accounting Principles Board Opinion , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees, account for stock option and employee stock purchase plans. alternative method accounting for stock options SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Employee stock options are valued grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and this compensation cost recognized ratably over the vesting period. / MSFT FORM - Part Item Had compensation cost for the Company\x92 stock option and employee stock purchase plans been determined prescribed SFAS , pro forma income statements for , , and would have been follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Year Ended June Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , , , , Research and development , , , , , , Sales and marketing , , , , , , General and administrative , , , , , Total operating expenses , , , , , , Operating income , , , , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) , , ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes , , , , , , Provision for income taxes , , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , , Cumulative effect accounting change \x96 \x96 ( ) ( ) \x96 \x96 Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ The weighted average Black-Scholes value options granted under the stock option plans during , , and was $ , $ , and $ . Value was estimated using weighted average expected life years , years , and years , dividends, volatility ,. , and , and risk-free interest rates %, %, and % , , and . / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding plus the effect outstanding preferred shares using the \x93 -converted\x94 method, outstanding put warrants using the \x93reverse treasury stock\x94 method, and outstanding stock options using the \x93treasury stock\x94 method. The components basic and diluted earnings per share were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Year Ended June Income before accounting change $ , $ , $ , Preferred stock dividends \x96 \x96 Net income available for common shareholders $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock , , , Dilutive effect : Put warrants \x96 Preferred stock \x96 \x96 Employee stock options Common stock and common stock equivalents , , , Earnings per share before accounting change: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ For the years ended June , , and , million, million, and million shares attributable outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the effect was antidilutive. NOTE OPERATIONAL TRANSACTIONS January , the Company acquired Visio Corporation transaction that was accounted for pooling interests. Microsoft issued million shares valued approximately $ billion the exchange for the outstanding stock Visio. Visio\x92 assets and liabilities, which were nominal, are included with those Microsoft the merger. Operating results for Visio from periods prior the merger were not material the combined results the two companies. Accordingly, the financial statements for such periods have not been restated. April , the Company acquired Great Plains Software, Inc. for approximately $ billion stock. Great Plains leading supplier mid-market business applications. The acquisition was accounted for the purchase method and operating results for Great Plains subsequent the date acquisition are included with those Microsoft. The pro forma impact Great Plains\x92 operating results prior the date acquisition was not material. NOTE COMMITMENTS The Company has operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases, millions dollars, are: , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; and thereafter, $ . Microsoft has committed $ million for constructing new buildings. addition, the Company has guaranteed $ million debt its equity investees. NOTE CONTINGENCIES The Company defendant . . Microsoft , lawsuit filed the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice (DOJ) and group eighteen state Attorneys General alleging violations the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. After the trial, the District Court entered Findings Fact and Conclusions Law stating that Microsoft had violated Sections and the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. Judgment was entered June , ordering, among other things, the breakup Microsoft into two companies. / MSFT FORM - Part Item The Judgment was stayed pending appeal. June , , the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit affirmed part, reversed part, and vacated the Judgment its entirety and remanded the case the District Court for new trial one Section claim and for entry new judgment consistent with its ruling. its ruling, the Court Appeals substantially narrowed the bases liability found the District Court, but affirmed some the District Court\x92 conclusions that Microsoft had violated Section . October , , the trial court held status conference and entered orders requiring the parties engage settlement discussions until November , . Microsoft entered into settlement with the United States November , . Nine states (New York, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina and Wisconsin) agreed settle substantially the same terms November , . hearing the settlement was held the Court March , . The Court will now decide whether approve the settlement being the public interest. Nine states and the District Columbia continue litigate the remedies phase . . Microsoft . The non-settling states are seeking imposition remedy that would impose much broader restrictions Microsoft\x92 business than the proposed settlement with the DOJ and nine other states. The Court conducted evidentiary hearing related the non-settling states\x92 proposed remedies from March June , . decision anticipated later calendar . other ongoing investigations, the DOJ and several state Attorneys General have requested information from Microsoft concerning various issues. addition, the European Commission has instituted proceedings which alleges that Microsoft has failed disclose information that Microsoft competitors claim they need interoperate fully with Windows clients and servers and has engaged discriminatory licensing such technology, well improper bundling multimedia playback technology the Windows operating system. The remedies sought, though not fully defined, include mandatory disclosure Microsoft Windows operating system technology and imposition fines. Microsoft denies the European Commission\x92 allegations and intends contest the proceedings vigorously. large number overcharge class action lawsuits have been initiated against Microsoft various state and Federal courts. These cases allege that Microsoft has competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications and seek recover alleged overcharges that the complaints contend Microsoft charged for these products. Microsoft believes the claims are without merit and vigorously defending the cases. date, Microsoft has won dismissals all claims for damages indirect purchasers under Federal law and separate state court proceedings, which seven have been affirmed and one has been reversed. Claims behalf foreign purchasers have also been dismissed. Appeals several these rulings are still pending. trials other proceedings have been held concerning any liability issues. Courts several states have ruled that these cases may proceed class actions, while two courts have denied class certification status the claims that state proceeding and another has ruled that class action available for claims that state. fiscal , the Company recorded contingent liability approximately $ million representing management\x92 estimate the costs resolving the contingency. Management\x92 contingent liability estimate based upon proposed settlement between Microsoft and lead counsel for the Federal plaintiffs. While the proposed settlement was not approved the District Court, management believes that the proposal represents the best estimate the costs resolving the contingency based currently available information. The Company intends continue vigorously defending these lawsuits. Netscape Communications Inc., subsidiary AOL-Time Warner Inc., filed suit against Microsoft January , Federal court the District Columbia, alleging violations antitrust and unfair competition laws and other tort claims relating Netscape and its Navigator browser. The complaint includes claims unlawful monopolization attempted monopolization alleged markets for operating systems and Web browsers, illegal tying operating systems and browsers, and tortuous interference with Netscape\x92 business relations. Netscape seeks injunctive relief, unquantified treble damages and its fees and costs. Microsoft denies these allegations and will vigorously defend this action. The case has been transferred for pretrial purposes the District Court Baltimore, Maryland and being coordinated with the overcharge class actions described above. Incorporated, former software development company whose assets were acquired Palm Incorporated August , filed suit against Microsoft February , Federal court San Francisco, alleging violations Federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws and other tort claims. alleges that Microsoft\x92 license agreements with computer manufacturers, pricing policies, and business practices interfered with \x92 relationships with computer manufacturers and discouraged them from adopting \x92 own operating system for their products. seeking unquantified treble and punitive damages for its alleged injuries along with its fees and costs. Microsoft denies these allegations and will vigorously defend this action. The case has been transferred for pretrial purposes the District Court Baltimore, Maryland and being coordinated with the overcharge class actions described above. March , , Sun Microsystems, Inc. filed suit against Microsoft alleging violations Federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws well claims under the Federal Copyright Act. Sun seeks injunctive relief and unspecified treble damages along with its fees and costs. Microsoft denies these allegations and will vigorously defend this action. The case has been transferred for pretrial purposes the District Court Baltimore, Maryland and being coordinated with the overcharge class actions described above. June , , Microsoft and the Securities and Exchange Commission entered into administrative settlement resolving non-public investigation certain Microsoft\x92 accounting and record keeping practices during fiscal years through (SEC File . - ). The settlement provides that Microsoft will not violate securities regulations that require companies make accurate filings and maintain sufficient records and controls. The settlement has impact the Company\x92 financial results. The Company also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course its business. Management currently believes that resolving all these matters will not have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial position its results operations. / MSFT FORM - Part Item NOTE SEGMENT INFORMATION Millions Year Ended June Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services Consumer Software, Services, and Devices Consumer Commerce Investments Other Reconciling Amounts Consolidated Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ $ , Operating income/(loss) , ( , ) ( ) ( , ) , Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ ( ) $ , Operating income/(loss) , ( , ) ( ) ( ) , Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ $ , Operating income/(loss) , ( , ) ( , ) , Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services Revenue: Millions Year Ended June Desktop Applications $ , $ , $ , Desktop Platforms , , , Desktop Software , , , Enterprise Software and Services , , , Total Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services $ , $ , $ , fiscal , Microsoft had four segments: Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services; Consumer Software, Services, and Devices; Consumer Commerce Investments; and Other. Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services operating segment includes Desktop Applications, Desktop Platforms, and Enterprise Software and Services. Desktop Applications include Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Visio; client access licenses for Windows Server and Windows Server, Exchange, and BackOffice; Microsoft Great Plains; and bCentral. Desktop Platforms include Windows Professional and Home, Windows Professional, Windows Workstation, Windows Millennium Edition (Windows ), Windows , and other desktop operating systems. Enterprise Software and Services includes Server Platforms; Server Applications; developer tools and services; and Enterprise services. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices operating segment includes Xbox video game system, MSN Internet access, MSN network services, and online games, learning and productivity software, mobility, and embedded systems. Consumer Commerce Investments operating segment includes Expedia, Inc., the HomeAdvisor online real estate service, and the CarPoint online automotive service. Other primarily includes Hardware and Microsoft Press. Segment information presented accordance with SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information. This standard based management approach, which requires segmentation based upon the Company\x92 internal organization and disclosure revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. The Company\x92 financial reporting systems present various data for management run the business, including internal profit and loss statements ( & ) prepared basis not consistent with . generally accepted accounting principles. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. Reconciling items for revenue include certain elements unearned revenue and the treatment certain channel inventory amounts and estimates. addition the reconciling items for revenue, reconciling items for operating income/(loss) include general and administrative expenses ($ billion , $ million , and $ billion ), certain research expenses ($ million , $ million , and $ million ), and other corporate level adjustments. The internal & use accelerated methods depreciation and amortization. Additionally, losses equity investees and minority interests are classified operating income for internal reporting presentations. / MSFT FORM - Part Item Revenue attributable . operations includes shipments customers the United States, licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations, and exports finished goods, primarily Asia, Latin America, and Canada. Revenue from . operations totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Revenue from outside the United States, excluding licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations and . exports, totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . single customer accounted for % more revenue , , . Long-lived assets (principally property and equipment) totaled $ billion and $ billion the United States and and $ million and $ million other countries and . NOTE SUBSEQUENT EVENT July , , Microsoft acquired Navision result the successful close tender offer. Microsoft purchased Navision\x92 shares for approximately $ billion stock and cash. Navision provider integrated business software solutions for small and medium-sized companies. The purchase price allocation currently being developed for this acquisition. QUARTERLY INFORMATION millions, except per share amounts (Unaudited) Quarter Ended Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , Basic earnings per share ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ) Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per basic share and $ per diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . . ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. and $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. / MSFT FORM - Part Item , INDEPENDENT AUDITORS\x92 REPORT the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. described Note the financial statements, the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , effective July , , and Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , effective July , . / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Deloitte & Touche LLP Seattle, Washington July , ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES None. / MSFT FORM - Part III Item , , , PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS THE REGISTRANT Information with respect Directors may found under the caption \x93Election Directors and Management Information\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Such information incorporated herein reference. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation\x94 and \x93Information Regarding the Board and its Committees\x94 incorporated herein reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION Millions, Except Per Share Amounts June , ( ) ( ) ( ) Plan category Number securities issued upon exercise outstanding options, warrants and rights Weighted-average exercise price outstanding options, warrants and rights Number securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved security holders $ Equity compensation plans not approved security holders \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ The information set forth under the caption \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth under the captions \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. / MSFT FORM - Part Item PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed reports Form - during the quarter ended June , . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington Form Indemnification Agreement Resignation Agreement between Richard Belluzzo and Microsoft Corporation . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\x92 Consent Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . / MSFT FORM - Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title / / ILLIAM . ATES , III William . Gates, III Chairman the Board Directors and Chief Software Architect / / TEVEN . ALLMER Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer / / AMES . ASH , . James . Cash, . Director / / AYMOND . ILMARTIN Raymond . Gilmartin Director / / AUGHLIN OROLOGOS Ann McLaughlin Korologos Director / / AVID . ARQUARDT David . Marquardt Director / / . . EED , . . . Reed, . Director / / . HIRLEY Jon . Shirley Director / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) CERTIFICATIONS , Steven . Ballmer, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Microsoft Corporation; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; and . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report. Date: September , / / TEVEN . ALLMER Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer , John . Connors, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Microsoft Corporation; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; and . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report. Date: September , / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Chief Financial Officer / MSFT FORM - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Number Description Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington Form Indemnification Agreement Resignation Agreement between Richard Belluzzo and Microsoft Corporation . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\x92 Consent Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . FORM -', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS THE REGISTRANT Information with respect Directors may found under the caption \x93Election Directors and Management Information\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Such information incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation\x94 and \x93Information Regarding the Board and its Committees\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION Millions, Except Per Share Amounts June , ( ) ( ) ( ) Plan category Number securities issued upon exercise outstanding options, warrants and rights Weighted-average exercise price outstanding options, warrants and rights Number securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved security holders $ Equity compensation plans not approved security holders \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ The information set forth under the caption \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth under the captions \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. / MSFT FORM - Part Item PART ', 'item 14. ': 'EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed reports Form - during the quarter ended June , . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington Form Indemnification Agreement Resignation Agreement between Richard Belluzzo and Microsoft Corporation . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\x92 Consent Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . / MSFT FORM - Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title / / ILLIAM . ATES , III William . Gates, III Chairman the Board Directors and Chief Software Architect / / TEVEN . ALLMER Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer / / AMES . ASH , . James . Cash, . Director / / AYMOND . ILMARTIN Raymond . Gilmartin Director / / AUGHLIN OROLOGOS Ann McLaughlin Korologos Director / / AVID . ARQUARDT David . Marquardt Director / / . . EED , . . . Reed, . Director / / . HIRLEY Jon . Shirley Director / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) CERTIFICATIONS , Steven . Ballmer, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Microsoft Corporation; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; and . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report. Date: September , / / TEVEN . ALLMER Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer , John . Connors, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Microsoft Corporation; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; and . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report. Date: September , / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Chief Financial Officer / MSFT FORM - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Number Description Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington Form Indemnification Agreement Resignation Agreement between Richard Belluzzo and Microsoft Corporation . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\x92 Consent Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certification Pursuant . Section , Adopted Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . FORM -', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}