{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Apple Computer, Inc.-Registered Trademark- ("Apple" the "Company") was incorporated under the laws the state California January , . The Company\' principal executive offices are located Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California, , and its telephone number ( ) - . The Company designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related personal computing and communicating solutions for sale primarily education, creative, consumer, and business customers. Substantially all the Company\' net sales date have been derived from the sale personal computers from its Apple Macintosh-Registered Trademark- line computers and related software and peripherals. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' geographic segments include the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan, while the Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia except for Japan. Each geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Net Sales," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data," which information hereby incorporated reference. During , the Company continued and essentially completed restructuring plan commenced aimed reducing its cost structure, improving its competitiveness, and restoring sustainable profitability. The Company\' restructuring actions included the termination employees, closure facilities, and cancellation contracts. Further information regarding these restructuring actions may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Special Charges," which information hereby incorporated reference. PRINCIPAL HARDWARE PRODUCTS Apple Macintosh personal computers were first introduced , and are characterized their intuitive ease use, innovative industrial designs and applications base, and built- networking, graphics, and multimedia capabilities. The Company offers wide range personal computing products, including personal computers, related peripherals, software, and networking and connectivity products. All the Company\' Macintosh products employ PowerPC-Registered Trademark- RISC-based microprocessors. POWER MACINTOSH-Registered Trademark- The Power Macintosh line high-performance personal computers targeted business and professional users and designed meet the speed, expansion and networking needs the most demanding Macintosh user. The Company\' current line Power Macintosh systems was introduced August and equipped with PowerPC processors. With the addition Apple networking software, Power Macintosh systems can used workgroup servers. POWERBOOK-Registered Trademark- The PowerBook family portable computer products specifically designed meet the mobile computing needs professionals and advanced personal users. Incorporating powerful PowerPC processors, large active-matrix displays, long battery lives, and software designed enhance mobile computing, the Company\' PowerBook family intended provide professional desktop performance notebook computer. iMAC-Registered Trademark- Originally announced May , the iMac computer targeted the education and consumer markets. With innovative industrial design, easy Internet access, and powerful PowerPC processor, iMac suitable for wide range education and consumer applications. completely redesigned iMac was introduced October and available three models: iMac, iMac -Registered Trademark- (Digital Video), and iMac Special Edition. Both models feature Firewire ports, DVD drives, and the Company\' simple- -use iMovie- - digital video editing software. iBOOK- - The iBook computer, intended the "iMac ," was introduced July . Designed specifically for the portable computing needs education and consumer users, the iBook features large active-matrix display, long battery life, PowerPC processor, Internet-ready hardware and software configurations, and built- antennas for optional AirPort- - wireless networking capability. PERIPHERAL PRODUCTS The Company sells certain associated computer peripherals, including range high quality precision color monitors and AirPort wireless networking base stations and add- cards. Over the past three years, the Company eliminated all its Apple-branded printers and significantly reduced the number its monitor products. The Company also discontinued its MessagePad-Registered Trademark- and eMate-Registered Trademark- product lines. The discontinuance these peripheral products and portable computing products was part the overall strategy the Company simplify and focus its efforts those products perceived critical the Company\' future success. PRINCIPAL SOFTWARE PRODUCTS OPERATING SYSTEM SOFTWARE AND APPLICATION SOFTWARE The Company\' operating system software, Mac-Registered Trademark- , provides Macintosh computers with easy, consistent user interface. The current version, Mac -Registered Trademark-, began shipping October and delivers Sherlock- - , the updated version the Company\' advanced Internet search engine. Mac includes over new features, including features for faster and more efficient Internet usage, enhanced system and network security, and auto-updating Apple software over the Internet. The Company plans continue introduce upgrades Mac and later introduce the client version new operating system, Mac . Mac Client expected offer advanced functionality based software technologies Apple and those -process technologies NeXT-Registered Trademark- Software, Inc. (NeXT), which the Company acquired . March , the Company introduced Mac Server, which combines the strength UNIX-Registered Trademark- and simplicity the Macintosh. Mac Server based the Mach microkernel and the BSD-Registered Trademark- operating system. provides performance and stability through full preemptive multitasking, protected memory, and advanced virtual memory. NetBoot Mac server feature allowing network Macs booted and configured from single server. March , the Company also introduced Darwin, the Open Source release the Mac server foundation. The Company has two primary digital video authoring editing software titles. Final Cut Pro- -, introduced April , video authoring software that combines professional-quality video editing, compositing, and special effects one package. iMovie, introduced October , makes easy create home and classroom movies. iMovie software comes pre-installed all iMac and iMac Special Edition models. The Company also develops and distributes extensions the Macintosh system software, such utilities, languages, and developer tools. The Company continues develop QuickTime-Registered Trademark-, its market-leading cross platform digital media technology. WebObjects-Registered Trademark-, leading software product the emerging application server market, also part Apple\' software portfolio. Targeted Windows -Registered Trademark- and UNIX platforms, future versions will also run Apple hardware. FileMaker-Registered Trademark- Corporation (formerly Claris-Registered Trademark- Corporation), wholly owned subsidiary the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes database management application software for Mac and Windows-based systems. Further, the Company has developed and currently markets AppleWorks-Registered Trademark- , formerly ClarisWorks-Registered Trademark-, integrated suite software applications that combines word processing, database, spreadsheet, drawing and communications capabilities single software package for both Mac and Windows. INTERNET INTEGRATION Apple\' Internet strategy focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\' product lines. addition Sherlock , easy Internet Setup Assistant integral part Mac , the current version the Macintosh operating system. THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS Over the past two years, particularly since the announcement the iMac May , software developers have demonstrated renewed interest the Macintosh platform. Since iMac was announced, approximately , new revised software titles have been announced for the Macintosh platform. Additionally, Microsoft delivered new version their productivity software--Office : Macintosh Edition-- early . The Company previously entered into agreements license its Mac other personal computer vendors (the Clone Vendors) part effort increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform. fiscal , the Company determined the benefits licensing the Mac the Clone Vendors under these agreements were more than offset the impact and costs the licensing program. result, the Company discontinued the Mac licensing program and acquired certain assets Power Computing Corporation (PCC), Clone Vendor, including PCC\' license distribute the Mac . The Company does not currently plan general licensing the Mac . Further information regarding the Company\' products may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Competition" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. MARKETS AND DISTRIBUTION The Company\' customers are primarily the education, creative, consumer, and business markets. Certain customers are attracted Macintosh computers for variety reasons, including the reduced amount training resulting from the Macintosh computer\' intuitive ease use, industrial design features the Company\' hardware products, the ability Macintosh computers network and communicate with other computer systems and environments, and the availability wide variety certain user-friendly application software. Apple personal computers were first introduced education customers the late 1970s. the United States, the Company one the major suppliers personal computers for both elementary and secondary school customers, well for college and university customers. The Company also supplier institutions higher education outside the United States. The United States represents the Company\' largest geographic marketplace. The United States part the Company\' Americas operating segment, which has responsibility for the Company\' sales, marketing, and support efforts North and South America. Approximately % the Company\' net sales fiscal came from its international operations. Final assembly products sold the Company conducted the Company\' manufacturing facilities California, Singapore, and Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Taiwan, Korea, Mexico, and the United Kingdom. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers, and directly education institutions for resale (collectively referred "resellers"). The Company also sells many its products most its major markets directly end users through its -line store. Throughout fiscal , the Company revised its distribution channel model and related policies. result, the Company significantly reduced the number its distributors, authorized resellers, and national retail channel partners, particularly the United States. The Company also revised its distribution channel policies including decreasing the price protection and stock return privileges its remaining distributors and resellers. RAW MATERIALS Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs)) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components (including without limitation DRAM and TFT-LCD flat-panel displays), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry wide availability and pricing pressures. Any availability limitations, interruption supplies, price increases relative these and other components could adversely affect the Company\' business and financial results. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\' yields have matured. Components are normally acquired through purchase orders, common the industry, typically covering the Company\' requirements for periods from days. However, the Company continues evaluate the need for supply contract each situation. the supply key component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipment completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source , possible, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. addition its current suppliers DRAM and TFT-LCD flat-panel displays, the Company believes the component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\' business and financial position include, this time: Alpha-Top Corporation, Ambit Microsystems Corporation, ATI Technologies, Inc., Canon, Inc., Darfon Electronics Corporation, IBM Corporation, Electronics, Matsushita, Motorola, Inc., NatSteel Electronics PTE Ltd., Philips Semiconductors, Quanta Computer, Inc., and Samsung Electronics. The Company attempts mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and internal and external manufacturing schedules and levels. The Company believes many its single-source suppliers, including most the foregoing companies, are reliable multinational corporations. The Company also believes most these suppliers manufacture the relevant components multiple plants. The Company further believes its long-standing business relationships with many these and other key suppliers are strong and mutually beneficial nature. The Company has from time time experienced significant price increases and limited availability certain components that are available from multiple sources. Any similar occurrences the future could have adverse effect the Company\' operating results. Further discussion relating availability and supply components and product may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Inventory and Supply" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product," which information hereby incorporated reference. PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer systems, peripheral systems, and software. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks the United States and number foreign countries for "Apple-Registered Trademark-", the Apple silhouette logo, the Apple color logo, "Macintosh-Registered Trademark-," and numerous other product trademarks. , the Company acquired ownership the trademark "Macintosh" for use connection with computer products. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, trademarks, copyrights, and licenses important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company believes the resolution any claim infringements would not have material adverse effect its financial condition and results operations reported the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The Company has from time time entered into cross-licensing agreements with other companies. SEASONAL BUSINESS Although the Company does not consider its business highly seasonal, has historically experienced increased sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters, compared other quarters its fiscal year, due seasonal demand related the beginning the school year and the holiday season. However, past performance should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future net sales financial performance. WARRANTY The Company offers limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The warranty period typically one year from the date purchase the end user. The Company also offers -day warranty for Apple software and for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage most Apple hardware products all the Company\' major markets. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS customer accounted for more than % the Company\' net sales , , . BACKLOG the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions because over ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. COMPETITION The market for the design, manufacture, and sale personal computers and related software and peripheral products highly competitive. continues characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software development, which have substantially increased the capabilities and applications these products, and has resulted the frequent introduction new products. The principal competitive factors this market are relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, availability software, product features, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, availability hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result the recent innovations the Windows platform. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived functional and design advantages over competing platforms. Further discussion relating the competitive conditions the personal computing industry and the Company\' competitive position the marketplace may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Competition," included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Because the personal computer industry characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\' ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow competitive products and technology the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas hardware and peripherals, system software, networking and communications, and the Internet. The Company\' research and development expenditures, before charges for -process research and development, totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. The declines total expenditures for research and development and compared were principally due restructuring actions taken the Company intended focus the Company\' research and development efforts those projects perceived critical the Company\' future success. ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS Compliance with federal, state, and local laws and foreign laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect upon the Company\' capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, assurance can given such laws, any future laws enacted for the protection the environment, will not have material adverse effect the Company. EMPLOYEES September , , Apple and its subsidiaries worldwide had , regular employees, and additional , temporary part-time employees and contractors. FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA Information regarding financial data geographic segment and the risks associated with international operations set forth Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data," and Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks," included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and domestic sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms five additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center. The Sacramento facility also houses customer call center. addition, the Company owns , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the United States, the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Other Factors" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Information regarding legal proceedings set forth Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note under the subheading "Litigation," which information hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . PART ITEM . MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT\' COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. December , , there were , shareholders record. The Company did not pay cash dividends either fiscal . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock represents the highest and lowest prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. FOURTH QUARTER THIRD QUARTER SECOND QUARTER FIRST QUARTER -------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- Fiscal price range per common share............................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share............................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. FIVE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales.................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss)............................ $ $ $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic...................................... $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Diluted.................................... $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Cash dividends declared per common share..... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ $ Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic...................................... , , , , , Diluted.................................... , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , $ Total assets................................. $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt............................... $ $ $ $ $ Shareholders\' equity......................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net gains before taxes resulting from sales equity investment $ million and $ million were recognized and , respectively. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. fiscal , the Company acquired NeXT, resulting the allocation -process research and development charge $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. ITEM . MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS THIS SECTION AND OTHER PARTS THIS FORM - CONTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THE COMPANY\' ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE RESULTS DISCUSSED THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. FACTORS THAT MIGHT CAUSE SUCH DIFFERENCES INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED , THOSE DISCUSSED THE SUBSECTION ENTITLED "FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION" BELOW. THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION SHOULD READ CONJUNCTION WITH THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES THERETO INCLUDED ITEM THIS FORM - . ALL INFORMATION BASED THE COMPANY\' FISCAL CALENDAR. RESULTS OPERATIONS The following table sets forth annual results operations for fiscal years , , and ( millions, except unit shipment and per share amounts): CHANGE CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales...................................... $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Macintosh CPU unit sales ( thousands)...... , % , ( )% , Gross margin................................... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales...................... % % % Research and development....................... $ % $ ( )% $ Percentage net sales...................... % % % Selling, general and administrative............ $ % $ ( )% $ , Percentage net sales...................... % % % Special charges: -process research and development.......... $ -- $ $ Restructuring costs.......................... $ $ -- $ Termination license agreement............. $ -- $ -- $ Gains from sales investment................. $ $ $ -- Interest and other income, net................. $ % $ % $ Provision for income taxes..................... $ % $ $ -- Net income (loss).............................. $ % $ % $( , ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic........................................ $ % $ % $ ( ) Diluted...................................... $ % $ % $ ( ) The following table sets forth quarterly results operations for fiscal and ( millions, except unit shipment and per share amounts): YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , ----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Macintosh CPU unit sales ( thousands).......... Gross margin................ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Gross margin percentage... % % % % % % % % Operating expenses.......... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Special charges............. -- -- -- -- -- Operating margin............ Operating margin percentage.............. % % % % % % % % Gains from sales investment................ $ $ $ $ -- $ -- -- Interest and other income, net....................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Provision for income taxes..................... -- Net income.................. $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic..................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ OVERVIEW During , the Company experienced % rise Macintosh unit sales. This increase primarily attributable the success iMac, the Company\' moderately priced desktop Macintosh system designed for the education and consumer markets. The Company sold approximately million iMac units , increase approximately , units % over unit sales similar products . Growth unit sales was strong all the Company\' geographic operating segments, particularly Japan and Asia Pacific due strong acceptance iMac those regions and the general economic improvements experienced much Asia during the year. The Company also experienced improved profitability . Operating income before special charges rose % $ million $ million from $ million . Contributing the improvement operating margin was rise gross margin percentage net sales % compared % . The impact improved gross margins was partially offset planned increases recurring operating expenses during % total $ billion. Despite improved unit sales and improved profitability, the Company\' net sales rose only % $ billion. Growth net sales was negatively impacted during the year declines the average revenue per Macintosh system for both Power Macintosh and iMac systems and shift unit mix towards the lower priced iMac systems. Net sales were also negatively impacted during the fourth quarter due lower than planned deliveries PowerPC processors from Motorola. The primary focus the Company during fiscal remains achieving meaningful year-over-year growth both unit sales and net sales. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent upon the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet the dynamic conditions within the highly competitive market for personal computers. Potential risks and uncertainties that could affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition are discussed throughout this Item , including the discussion under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." NET SALES Net sales for geographic segments and Macintosh unit sales geographic segment and product follow (net sales millions and Macintosh unit sales thousands): CHANGE CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Americas net sales................................ $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Europe net sales.................................. $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Japan net sales................................... $ % $ ( )% $ , Asia Pacific net sales............................ $ % $ ( )% $ Americas Macintosh unit sales..................... , % , % , Europe Macintosh unit sales....................... % ( )% Japan Macintosh unit sales........................ % ( )% Asia Pacific Macintosh unit sales................. % ( )% ------ ------ ------ Total Macintosh unit sales...................... , % , ( )% , ====== ====== ====== Power Macintosh unit sales........................ , % , % PowerBook unit sales.............................. ( )% % iMac unit sales( )................................ , % , ( )% , iBook unit sales.................................. -- -- -- -- ------ ------ ------ Total Macintosh unit sales...................... , % , ( )% , ====== ====== ====== - ------------------------ ( ) Unit sales figures for iMac and include sales the Company\' previous consumer and education oriented Macintosh products. Net sales increased $ million % $ billion compared . The primary source this growth was overall % increase Macintosh unit sales, which was reflective strong unit growth all the Company\' geographic operating segments. Offsetting the rise unit shipments was decline the average revenue per Macintosh system, function total net sales generated hardware shipments and total Macintosh CPU unit sales, which fell % $ , from $ , . The decline during the average revenue per Macintosh system attributable lower pricing for both iMac and Power Macintosh products, which reflects the continuing overall industry trend towards lower pricing. The decline also attributable the shift the Company\' unit mix toward lower-priced consumer products such that iMac units and comparable products comprised % total Macintosh unit sales versus % . Net sales declined sequentially during the fourth quarter compared the third quarter $ million %, and declined $ million % compared the same period . Similarly, Macintosh unit sales declined % and % during the fourth quarter compared the third quarter and the same period , respectively. The primary causes for these declines both net sales and unit sales were lower than planned deliveries PowerPC processors from Motorola and production interruptions vendors supplying PowerBooks and iBooks experienced during the last week the fourth quarter result the earthquake Taiwan September , . The shortage processors reduced net sales approximately $ million during the fourth quarter . Net sales decreased $ billion, %, $ billion compared . The decline during net sales attributable several factors. The Company experienced $ million decrease net sales peripheral products during compared principally due the discontinuance the Company certain imaging and display products. The average revenue per Macintosh system fell % during compared from $ , $ , , reflecting the effect aggressive pricing the Company\' Power Macintosh systems introduced the first quarter fiscal , the decline net sales from the phase out certain peripheral products, the overall industry trend toward lower priced products, and the Company\' reentry during the fourth quarter into the lower-priced consumer market. Lastly, overall Macintosh CPU unit sales for declined approximately % from . International net sales were particularly affected these factors and the economic conditions existing Asia during . SEGMENT OPERATING PERFORMANCE The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' geographic segments include the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan, while the Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia except for Japan. Each geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data," which information hereby incorporated reference. AMERICAS Net sales the Americas segment increased % $ billion during compared , while Macintosh unit sales increased %. This followed % decline net sales the Americas between and . During , the Americas segment represented approximately % and % the Company\' total net sales and total Macintosh unit sales, respectively. The results experienced this segment reflect the overall trends experienced the Company growing Macintosh unit sales offset declines the average revenue per Macintosh system. EUROPE Net sales the Europe segment increased % $ billion during compared , while Macintosh unit sales increased %. This followed % decline net sales the Europe segment between and . Like the Americas segment, Europe\' results compared are indicative strong growth Macintosh unit sales offset declines the average revenue per Macintosh system. JAPAN AND ASIA PACIFIC Macintosh unit sales and net sales Asia, particularly Japan, recovered during from the declines experienced . Net sales the Japan segment increased % $ million total $ million compared . Macintosh unit sales Japan increased % during compared while Macintosh unit sales the Asia Pacific segment increased %. The increases net sales and Macintosh unit sales both Japan and Asia Pacific are the result strong iMac sales experienced these operating segments, strong growth Japanese consumer sales, and the general economic recovery experienced the region. BACKLOG the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions because overordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Further information regarding the Company\' backlog may found below under the subheading "Product Introductions and Transitions" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. GROSS MARGIN Gross margin increased percentage net sales during % compared % . This increase was primarily attributable declines the cost various components the Company\' products, improvements manufacturing efficiencies brought about selective outsourcing final assembly certain the Company\' products, improved design products leading lower manufacturing and warranty costs, and relatively stable pricing the Company\' products over the last six months . During , the Company was also able fully realize the benefits actions taken primarily and that led improved inventory management and more efficient distribution model for its products. These improvements are discussed below. Gross margin increased percentage net sales during % compared % . This increase was primarily the result shift revenue mix toward the Company\' higher margin Power Macintosh systems and newer PowerBook systems, the low volume lower margin consumer products shipped during the first three quarters , and the declining cost various components the Company\' products, particularly those sourced from Asia. Improvements the Company\' inventory management also contributed the increase gross margins. During , the Company simplified its product line, moving from approximately separate individual products three main product families. Further, the Company attempted use many industry standard parts its newer products possible, expanded the use supplier hubs manufacturing sites, and outsourced the manufacture printed circuit boards and some systems assembly. These changes have allowed the Company more accurately forecast demand, reduce inventory carrying levels and related costs, lessen the financial exposure resulting from inventory obsolescence and excess inventory levels, and reduce the component cost obtaining certain standardized parts. The Company also made changes its distribution model during and that contributed the increase gross margins . The Company significantly reduced the number locations where stages finished goods, generally holding inventory regional basis rather than each country. Also, the Company significantly reduced the number its distributors, authorized resellers, and national retail channel partners, particularly the United States. These changes allowed the Company reduce inventory and related financial exposures and reduced the inventory and related financial exposure associated with inventory held the Company\' distribution channels. The Company has also revised its distribution channel policies decreasing the price protection and stock return privileges its distributors and resellers. The Company anticipates that lower priced consumer products become larger share net sales and the overall industry trend toward lower-priced products continues, gross margins will decline during fiscal . The foregoing statement forward-looking. The Company\' actual results could differ because several factors, including those set forth the following paragraph and below the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." There can assurance targeted gross margin levels will achieved current margins existing individual products will maintained. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\' product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage quality problems and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account anticipated changes foreign currency exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations exchange rates. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company recognizes focused investments research and development are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. Expenditures research and development increased % $ million $ million compared . This followed $ million % decline compared . The overall decline spending research and development over the last two years principally due restructuring actions taken , , and intended focus the Company\' research and development efforts those projects perceived critical the Company\' future success. These restructuring actions led significant reductions research and development related headcount and the cancellation many research and development projects. SELLING, GENERAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE Selling, general, and administrative expenditures increased % $ million compared and increased % net sales from % . These increases are primarily the result increased spending marketing and promotional activities throughout and % increase combined sales, marketing, and general and administrative headcount from the end the end . Selling, general, and administrative expenditures declined $ million % compared and declined % net sales from % net sales . These decreases were primarily the result restructuring actions taken , , and , which resulted reductions headcount, closing facilities, and write-down and disposal operating assets during , , and . Additionally, changes during the Company\' distribution channel policies and business model, including contraction and focus the Company\' product line and simplification the Company\' internal and external distribution channels, led reduction selling expenses during . SPECIAL CHARGES AND RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS the second quarter , the Company announced and began implement restructuring plan designed reduce costs and return the Company profitability. The restructuring plan was necessitated decreased demand for the Company\' products and the Company\' adoption new strategic direction. These actions resulted charge during $ million. During , the Company announced and began implement supplemental restructuring actions meet the foregoing objectives the plan. The Company recognized $ million charge during for the estimated incremental costs those actions. All material restructuring actions contemplated under the plan were essentially complete the end fiscal . The combined and restructuring actions consisted terminating approximately , full-time employees; canceling vacating certain facility leases result those employee terminations; writing down certain land, buildings, and equipment sold result downsizing operations and outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling contracts for projects and technologies that were not critical the Company\' core business strategy. The restructuring actions under the plan resulted cash expenditures $ million and noncash asset write-downs $ million from the second quarter through September , . the combined and restructuring charges $ million, approximately $ million was determined excess during the fourth quarter . The remaining balance $ million September , , accrued restructuring costs for the and restructuring actions comprised payments over the next two years leases and contracts that had been terminated prior fiscal . The Company expects the remaining accrual will result cash expenditures $ million over the next two years. RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the fourth quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting charge operations $ million. The net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the fourth quarter reflects the $ million excess reserves related the and restructuring actions. The total cost these actions $ million comprised $ million for contract cancellation charges associated with the closure the Company\' outsourced data center and $ million for contract cancellation charges related supply and development agreements previously discontinued. The Company expects these actions result cash expenditures $ million over the next year. During the second quarter , the Company took certain actions improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. These restructuring actions resulted the Company recognizing charge operations approximately $ million during the second quarter , which was comprised $ million for severance benefits paid employees involuntarily terminated, $ million for the write-down operating assets disposed , and $ million for payments canceled contracts. These actions resulted the termination approximately employees and are substantially complete September , . -PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT May , the Company acquired certain technology that was under development and had alternative future use. The acquisition resulted the recognition $ million purchased -process research and development, which was charged operations upon acquisition. February , the Company acquired all the outstanding shares NeXT Software, Inc. (NeXT). NeXT had developed, marketed, and supported software enabling customers implement business applications the Internet World Wide Web, intranets and enterprise-wide client server networks. the total purchase price $ million, $ million was allocated purchased -process research and development and $ million was allocated goodwill and other intangible assets. The purchased -process research and development was charged operations upon acquisition, and the goodwill and other intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over two three years. TERMINATION LICENSE AGREEMENT August , the Company agreed acquire certain assets Power Computing Corporation (PCC), licensed distributor the Mac operating system, including PCC\' customer database and its license distribute the Mac . The agreement with PCC also included release claims between the parties. January , , the Company completed its acquisition certain assets from PCC. The total purchase price was approximately $ million, which $ million was expensed the fourth quarter "termination license agreement" and $ million was recorded goodwill the second quarter . The goodwill being amortized over three years. INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Interest and other income and expense (net) increased $ million % $ million during compared . This increase attributable two primary factors. First, the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased $ million % during resulting increase interest income during $ million. Second, interest expense declined $ million during , primarily result the conversion approximately $ million the Company\' convertible subordinated notes common stock during the third quarter . During , the Company experienced $ million increase interest income net interest expense, the result higher cash and investment balances and lower average short-term borrowings, offset decreased foreign exchange gains and increased other expense. GAINS FROM SALES INVESTMENT September , , the Company owned % the outstanding stock ARM Holdings plc (ARM), privately held company the United Kingdom involved the design high performance microprocessors and related technology. The Company had accounted for this investment using the equity method through September , . April , , ARM completed initial public offering its stock the London Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ National Market. The Company sold % its shares the offering for gain before foreign taxes approximately $ million, which was recognized other income. Foreign tax recognized this gain was approximately $ million. the time equity method investee sells existing newly issued common stock unrelated parties excess its book value, the equity method requires the net book value the investment adjusted reflect the investor\' share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from the sale. the Company\' policy record adjustment reflecting its share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from such sale gain loss other income. Consequently, the Company also recognized the third quarter other income approximately $ million reflect its remaining % ownership interest the increased net book value ARM following its initial public offering. September , , the carrying value the Company\' investment ARM carried other assets the consolidated balance sheet was approximately $ million. October , , the Company sold million shares (split adjusted) ARM stock. result this sale, the Company\' ownership interest ARM fell %. Consequently, beginning the first quarter fiscal , the Company ceased accounting for its remaining investment ARM using the equity method and categorized its remaining shares available-for-sale requiring the shares carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses net taxes reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. During fiscal , the Company sold approximately million shares (split adjusted) ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. September , , the Company\' remaining million shares ARM stock are valued $ million. The fair value the Company\' investment ARM reflected other assets September , , with offsetting amount net $ million related deferred income taxes recognized accumulated other comprehensive income. PROVISION (BENEFIT) FOR INCOME TAXES September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. substantial portion this asset realizable based the ability offset existing deferred tax liabilities. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and tax benefits certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. The Company\' effective tax rate for fiscal was % compared the higher statutory rate due primarily the reversal portion the previously established valuation allowance and certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes were provided. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the United States Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although most the issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. The Company anticipates its effective tax rate for fiscal will approximately %. The foregoing statement forward-looking. The Company\' actual results could differ because several factors, including those set forth below the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Additionally, the actual future tax rate will significantly impacted the amount and jurisdiction which the Company\' foreign profits are earned. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): -------- -------- -------- Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments.......... $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net.................................... $ $ $ , Inventory................................................... $ $ $ Working capital............................................. $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable( )........................ Days supply inventory( ).............................. Operating cash flow......................................... $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) Based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, increase $ million % over the same balances the end fiscal . During fiscal , the Company\' primary source cash was $ million cash flows from operating activities. Cash generated operations was primarily from net income, declines accounts receivables and inventory resulting from improved asset management, and increase accounts payable. The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged collateral support letters credit. addition the net purchase short-term investments $ billion, net cash used investing activities included $ million for the purchase investments Samsung and Akamai discussed below and $ million for the purchase fixed assets. These uses cash were partially offset proceeds from the sale ARM stock $ million and proceeds from the sale equipment $ million. The Company expects the level capital expenditures will increase moderately from . July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. September , , the Company had repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. November , , the Company entered into $ million revolving credit agreement with Bank America. Loans under the agreement pay interest LIBOR plus %, and the Company required pay commitment fee % the unused portion the credit facility. advances have been made against this credit facility. This revolving credit agreement intended provide the Company with additional source liquidity and provide additional support the Company\' capital position the event short-term liquidity disturbances worldwide financial markets associated with the Year crossover. The Company believes its balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient meet its cash requirements over the next twelve months, including any cash utilized its stock repurchase plan. However, given the Company\' current non-investment grade debt ratings, the Company should need obtain short-term borrowings, there can assurance such borrowings could obtained favorable rates. The inability obtain such borrowings favorable rates could materially adversely affect the Company\' results operations, financial condition, and liquidity. OTHER LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS discussed above, the Company has categorized its shares ARM available-for-sale requiring the shares carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses net taxes reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. September , , the Company held million shares ARM stock valued $ million. During the first quarter fiscal through December , , the Company sold additional million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and gains before taxes approximately $ million. December , , the Company holds million shares ARM stock valued approximately $ million. During the fourth quarter , the Company invested $ million Samsung Electronics ., Ltd (Samsung) assist the further expansion Samsung\' TFT-LCD flat-panel display production capacity. The investment, the form three year unsecured bonds, convertible into approximately , shares Samsung common stock beginning June . The bonds carry annual coupon rate % and pay total yield maturity % redeemed their maturity. June , the Company invested $ million Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), global Internet content delivery service. The investment was the form convertible preferred stock that converted into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits) the time Akamai\' initial public offering October . The Company restricted from selling more than % its shares within one year after the date the closing public offering Akamai\' stock. Beginning the first quarter fiscal , the Company has categorized its shares Akamai available-for-sale requiring they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses net taxes reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. December , , the fair value the Company\' investment Akamai was approximately $ billion. Because Akamai newly public company and its stock price has experienced significant volatility, the fair value the Company\' investment Akamai may fluctuate significantly the future. YEAR COMPLIANCE THE INFORMATION PRESENTED BELOW RELATED YEAR (Y2K) COMPLIANCE CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT ARE SUBJECT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THE COMPANY\' ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THOSE DISCUSSED BELOW AND ELSEWHERE THIS FORM - REGARDING Y2K COMPLIANCE. YEAR The Year (Y2K) issue the result certain computer hardware, operating system software and software application programs having been developed using two digits rather than four define year. For example, the clock circuit the hardware may incapable holding date beyond the year ; some operating systems may recognize date using " " the year rather than and certain applications may have limited date processing capabilities. These problems could result the failure major systems miscalculations, which could have material impact companies through business interruption shutdown, financial loss, damage reputation, and legal liability third parties. Y2K PLAN The Company\' Information Systems and Technology department ( & ) began addressing the Y2K issue part its Next Generation strategy, which addressed the need for ongoing enhancement and replacement the Company\' various disparate legacy information technology ( ) Systems. , the Company established Year Executive Steering Committee (Steering Committee) comprised senior executives the Company and the Company\' Year Project Management Office (PMO). The PMO reports the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Steering Committee, and the Audit and Finance Committee the Board Directors. The PMO developed and manages the Company\' worldwide Y2K strategic plan (Y2K Plan) address the potential impact Y2K the Company\' operations and business processes. particular, the Y2K Plan addresses four principal areas that may impacted the Y2K issue: Apple Branded Products; Third Party Relationships; Non- Business Systems; and Systems. With respect the Systems and Non- Business Systems, the Y2K Plan consists four separate but overlapping phases: Phase --Inventory and Risk Assessment; Phase --Remediation Cost Estimation; Phase III--Remediation; and Phase --Remediation Testing. addition, the Company has ongoing Y2K Awareness Program designed keep employees informed about Y2K issues. The discussion below reflects management\' estimate the current status the four principal areas the Company\' Y2K Plan. Regardless the current status, all areas the Y2K Plan remain under review and subject modification deemed necessary throughout the remainder calendar through the date rollover and into January . APPLE BRANDED PRODUCTS The Company designs and manufactures personal computers, related peripherals, operating system software and application software, including Macintosh personal computers and the Mac , which are marketed under the "Apple" brand (collectively "Apple Branded Products"). The Company tested certain Apple Branded Products determine Y2K compliance, although such testing did not include third party products bundled with Apple Branded Products and certain Apple Branded Products longer distributed and supported the Company. For purposes this discussion, Y2K compliant means product will not produce errors processing date data connection with the year change from December , , January , , when used with accurate date data accordance with its documentation, provided all other products (including other software, firmware and hardware) used with properly exchange date data with . Y2K compliant product will recognize the Year leap year. Information about testing and Y2K compliance Apple Branded Products available the Apple corporate web site under the heading "Year Readiness Disclosure", www apple com about year/. Such information, which updated ongoing basis, not considered part this annual report. Because the Company does not control the design non-Apple Branded Products third party products that are bundled with Apple Branded Products, cannot assure such products are Y2K compliant. Some Apple Branded Products installed customer sites may require upgrades other remediation. While the Company believes its customers are responsible for the Y2K readiness their and business environments, the Company has taken steps assist customers achieving their readiness goals. Apple issuing software updates ( additional charge) for most, but not all, known issues certain Apple Branded Products. THIRD PARTY RELATIONSHIPS The Company\' business operations are heavily dependent third party corporate service vendors, materials suppliers, outsourced operations partners, distributors and others. The Company working with key external parties identify and attempt mitigate the potential risks Y2K. The failure external parties resolve their own Y2K issues timely manner could result material financial risk the Company. part its Y2K Plan and establish the state readiness certain third parties, the Company actively communicating ongoing basis with certain third parties whose lack Y2K compliance would present high degree risk the Company. Based information obtained from various sources, the Company believes reasonably possible there will interruptions around the world critical services such air traffic control, airfreight transportation, customs clearance, telecommunications, and power utilities early calendar year that could result shipping delays raw material and finished goods. The Company also believes reasonably possible that worldwide financial markets could exhibit unusual short-term volatility and liquidity disturbances the end calendar and the beginning calendar . Such events could result material adverse effects the Company\' results operations and financial position. See further discussion regarding this issue below under the heading "Contingency Plans." The Company has substantially completed its review certain third parties the end the fourth quarter fiscal . Although numerous third parties have advised the Company they are addressing their Y2K issues, the readiness third parties overall varies widely. Because the Company\' Y2K compliance dependent the timely Y2K compliance third parties, there can assurances the Company\' efforts alone will resolve all Y2K issues. The Company continues communicate with and monitor the compliance efforts key third parties. The Company will continue these efforts with key third parties through the date rollover and into January . SYSTEMS AND NON- BUSINESS SYSTEMS Phase --Inventory and Risk Assessment: This Phase requires inventory and assessment the Non- Business Systems used the Company, including systems with embedded technology, building access systems, and health and safety systems. This Phase also includes inventory and assessment Systems used the Company, including large & systems, desktop hardware and software, and network hardware and software. Each system evaluated and the business risk quantified being High, Medium Low Risk the Company\' business. Systems that are High Risk are those, which uncorrected, would cause interruption complete failure conduct the Company\' business. Medium Risks are those that would negatively impact the business but complete cessation could avoided with some inconvenience. Low Risks are those where the risk business interruption cessation are remote. The Company intends that High and Medium Risk items will remediated replaced, and Low Risk items will likely not addressed prior the Year . The status the Company\' remediation efforts discussed below. The Company had substantially completed the Inventory and Risk Assessment Phase for both Systems and Non- Systems the end the third quarter fiscal . However, the Company has and will continue review information developed the result its Y2K Plan, which could result additional items being added its Y2K inventory. Phase --Remediation Cost Estimation: This Phase involves the analysis each High and Medium Risk determine how such risks may remediated and the cost such remediation. The Company has substantially completed this Phase for both and Non- Business Systems. Phase III--Remediation: This Phase includes the replacement correction the High and Medium Risk Non- Business Systems and Systems. The Company substantially completed this Phase for both and Non- Business Systems during the fourth quarter fiscal . Phase --Remediation Testing: This Phase includes the future date testing the remediation efforts made Phase III confirm that the changes made bring the affected systems into compliance, new problems have arisen result the remediation, and new systems that replaced noncompliant systems are Y2K compliant. The Company substantially completed this Phase for both and Non- Business Systems during the first quarter fiscal . COSTS ADDRESS Y2K The costs the Y2K program are primarily costs associated with the utilization existing internal resources and incremental external spending. The Company\' current estimate total incremental external spending over the life its Y2K plan address those risks identified High Medium approximately $ million which approximately $ million had been spent September , . the Company\' Y2K Plan continues, the actual future incremental spending may prove higher. Also, this estimate does not include the costs that could incurred the Company one more its significant third party vendors fails achieve Y2K compliance. The Company not separately identifying and including these estimates the Y2K costs incurred that are the result utilization the Company\' existing internal resources. CONTINGENCY PLANS Under the guidance and management the PMO, the Company the final stages developing, implementing, and testing Y2K contingency plans for critical business operations. The Company\' contingency plans, which are based part the assessment the magnitude and probability potential risks, primarily focus proactive steps prevent Y2K failures from occurring, they should occur, detect them quickly, minimize their impact and expedite their remediation. The Y2K contingency plans will supplement existing disaster recovery and business continuity plans. part its contingency plans, the Company has developed global Incident Management Team (IMT) identify, escalate, and mitigate the potential impact various Y2K failures. The IMT comprised personnel from the PMO well key areas the Company\' operations. The IMT will begin monitor the date rollover commencing with Sydney, Australia and will "follow the sun" through the time change the Pacific Standard Time zone. The Company\' contingency planning efforts were approximately % complete the end the fourth quarter fiscal and are expected substantially completed during the first quarter fiscal . The Company believes reasonably possible there will interruptions air traffic control, airfreight transportation, customs clearance, telecommunications, and power utilities early calendar year that could result shipping delays raw material and finished goods and other business interruptions. The Company has developed and implemented contingency plans mitigate the effects short-term interruption such services. However, the interruption these services last for extended period time, alternative Y2K compliant services are not readily available reasonable cost, there could material adverse effects the Company\' results operations and financial position. The Company also believes reasonably possible worldwide financial markets could exhibit unusual short-term volatility and liquidity disturbances the end calendar and the beginning calendar . The Company has developed and implemented contingency plans mitigate some the potential short-term effects such disturbances. However, these disturbances the financial markets last for extended period time, alternative mitigating actions are not readily available reasonable cost, there could material adverse effects the Company\' results operations and financial position. RISK FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH Y2K ISSUES The Company has substantially completed its initial assessment reasonably likely worst case scenarios Non- Business Systems and Systems failures and related consequences. Based current information, the Company believes the most likely worst case scenario will experience minor malfunctions and failures its Systems and Non- Business Systems the beginning the Year not previously detected during the Company\' inventory and risk assessment and remediation activities. The Company currently believes these malfunctions and failures will not have material impact its results operations financial condition. However, there can assurance the Y2K remediation the Company third parties will properly and timely completed, and the failure could have material adverse effect the Company, its business, its results operations, and its financial condition. particular, the Company believes lack Y2K readiness its significant third party vendors could cause material interruptions the Company\' operations. The identification additional issues with respect the Y2K compliance key third parties could have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations. addition, important factors that could cause results differ materially include, but are not limited , the ability the Company successfully identify systems and vendors that have Y2K issue, the nature and amount remediation effort required fix the affected systems, the adequacy such remediation efforts, the production-related contingency plans competitors with the Company\' third party suppliers, and the costs and availability labor and resources successfully address the Y2K issues and execute any required contingency plans. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION COMPETITION The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected industry wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including consumer, education and publishing. Additionally, several the Company\' competitors have introduced announced plans introduce products that mimic many the unique design and technical features the Company\' products. Many the Company\' competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected overall demand for personal computers and general customer preferences for one platform over another one set product features over another. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing Microsoft Windows operating systems. The Company believes the innovative industrial design its products, the unique set features its products currently provide, the perceived advantages the Mac over Windows, and the general reluctance the Macintosh installed base incur the costs switching platforms, have been driving forces behind sales the Company\' personal computer hardware recent years. The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result the recent innovations the Windows platform. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS AND TRANSITIONS Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products order remain competitive. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. The Company plans continue introduce upgrades the current Mac , Mac , and later introduce new operating system, Mac Client, which expected offer advanced functionality based Apple and NeXT software technologies. uncertain whether Mac will gain developer support and market acceptance. Inability successfully develop and make timely delivery substantially backward-compatible Mac planned enhancements the current Mac , gain developer support and market acceptance for those operating systems, may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. INVENTORY AND SUPPLY The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand and accrues for any cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been canceled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer industry, assurance can given the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may again have, material effect the Company\' financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce excess insufficient inventories particular products. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Many the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they also reduce the Company\' direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company remains least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service. Accordingly, the event product defects warranty liability, the Company may remain primarily liable. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components (including without limitation DRAM and TFT-LCD flat-panel displays), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry wide availability and pricing pressures. the supply key component were delayed constrained, the Company\' business and financial performance could adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, , possible, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for other semiconductor products with other industries that have experienced increased demand for such products, due either increased consumer demand increased use semiconductors their products (such the cellular phone and automotive industries). Finally, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry (including certain microprocessors and ASICs). Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\' requirements. Such product supply constraints and corresponding increased costs could decrease the Company\' net sales and adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Motorola, the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, and other developers and producers microprocessors used personal computers using the Windows operating systems. Further discussion relating availability and supply components and product may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Raw Materials," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product," which information hereby incorporated reference. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers, and directly education institutions for resale (collectively referred "resellers"). addition, the Company also sells many its products most its major markets directly end users through its -line store. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins. Most such resellers also distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakened, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\' products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\' products causes resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution," which information hereby incorporated reference. GLOBAL MARKET RISKS large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. Countries the Asia Pacific region, including Japan, have recently experienced weaknesses their currency, banking and equity markets. These weaknesses have adversely affected and may continue adversely affect consumer demand for the Company\' products, the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales, the availability and cost product components the Company, and consequently the Company\' results operations. Further information related the Company\' global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk" and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. SUPPORT FROM THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS Decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' financial losses prior years and declining demand for the Company\' products, well the Company\' decision end its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. Moreover, the Company\' current plan introduce Mac could cause software developers stop developing software for the current Mac . addition, there can assurance software developers will decide develop software for the new operating system timely basis all. August , the Company and Microsoft entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. addition, for period five years from August , subject certain limitations related the number Macintosh computers sold the Company, Microsoft will make future versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac . The Company will bundle the Internet Explorer product with Mac system software releases and make that product the default Internet browser for such releases. While the Company believes its relationship with Microsoft has been and will continue beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Microsoft relationship for limited term and does not cover many the areas which the Company competes with Microsoft, including the Windows platform. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac not covered the relationship following expiration the agreements may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system. addition, the Microsoft relationship may have adverse effect , among other things, the Company\' relationship with other partners. There can assurance the benefits the Company the Microsoft relationship will not offset the disadvantages. EURO CONVERSION January , , eleven the fifteen member countries the European Union adopted the Euro their common legal currency and established fixed conversion rates between their existing sovereign currencies and the Euro. The Euro now traded currency exchanges and available for non-cash transactions. three year transition period began during which transactions can made the old currencies. The Company has taken steps evaluate internal system capabilities, review the ability financial institution vendors support Euro transactions, and examine current marketing and pricing policies and strategies light the Euro conversion. The cost this effort not expected have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations financial condition. There can assurance, however, all issues related the Euro conversion have been identified and that any additional issues would not have material effect the Company\' results operations financial condition. The conversion the Euro may have competitive implications the Company\' pricing and marketing strategies, the impact which are not known this time. Additionally, the Company risk the extent its principal European suppliers and customers are unable deal effectively with the impact the Euro conversion. OTHER FACTORS The potential risks associated with the Company\' Y2K Plan are discussed above under the heading "Year Compliance." The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including certain major vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and leave responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, assurance can given such laws, any future laws enacted for the protection the environment, will not have material adverse effect the Company. Because the foregoing factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. addition, the Company\' participation highly dynamic industry often results significant volatility the Company\' common stock price. ITEM . DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE AND FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap, option and floor positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures intended hedge, there can assurance the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. INTEREST RATE RISK While the Company exposed with respect interest rate fluctuations many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\' exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\' investments and long-term debt obligations and related derivative financial instruments. The Company places its investments with high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\' general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. September , , substantially all the Company\' investments have maturities less than months. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the Notes) certain qualified parties private placement. The Notes were sold % par. The Notes paid interest semiannually and matured, not converted earlier, June , . The Notes were convertible their holders any time after September , , conversion price $ per share subject adjustments defined the Note agreement. Notes had been converted September , . The Notes were redeemable the Company % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the month period beginning June , , and % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the month period beginning June , . addition, the Company incurred approximately $ million costs associated with the issuance the Notes. These costs were accounted for deduction from the face amount the Notes and were being amortized over the life the Notes. April , , the Company called for redemption the Notes. Not including approximately $ million unamortized debt issuance costs, debentures aggregate principal amount outstanding totaled approximately $ million March , . During the third quarter , debenture holders chose convert virtually all the outstanding debentures common stock rate $ per share resulting the issuance approximately million shares the Company\' common stock. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . The following table presents the principal ( notional) amounts and related weighted-average interest rates for the Company\' investment portfolio and its long-term debt obligations. The long-term debt comprised $ million unsecured notes described above, which mature February . The Company\' . corporate securities include commercial paper, loan participations, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participation, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments have generally been held until maturity. Gross unrealized gains and losses were negligible September , and . millions, except weighted-average interest rates SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , -------------------- -------------------- WEIGHTED- WEIGHTED- AVERAGE AVERAGE CARRYING INTEREST CARRYING INTEREST AMOUNT RATE AMOUNT RATE -------- --------- -------- --------- Assets: Cash equivalents: . Treasury and Agency securities................ $ % $ % . corporate securities.......................... % % Foreign securities................................. % % ------ ------ Total cash equivalents........................... , % , % ------ ------ Short-term investments: . Treasury and Agency securities................ $ % $ . corporate securities.......................... % % Foreign securities................................. % % ------ ------ Total short-term investments..................... , % % ------ ------ Total investment securities.......................... $ , % $ , % ====== ====== Debt: Fixed rate........................................... $ % $ % ====== ====== Purchased floors are options limiting the Company\' exposure falling interest rates its cash equivalents and short-term investments locking minimum interest rate. The Company receives payment when interest rates fall below predetermined level. purchased floor generally qualifies for hedge accounting treatment and reported the balance sheet its premium cost, which amortized over the life the floor. The purchased floors are generally designated and effective hedges against interest rate risk the Company\' securities classified available-for-sale and are carried fair value other current liabilities with the unrealized gains and losses recorded component accumulated other comprehensive income. Purchased floors outstanding September , , provided the Company with the option weighted-average interest rate % the notional amount $ million. There were purchased floors outstanding September , . Gains and losses are recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , . During the last two years, the Company has entered into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company does not hold transact such financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. The interest rate swaps qualifying accounting hedges generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate year debt floating-rate debt and convert the floating rate investments fixed rate. The maturity date for $ million the asset swaps October with the remaining debt and asset swaps maturing February and September . September , and , interest rate debt swaps had weighted-average receive rate %. The weighted-average pay rate the debt swaps was % and % September , and , respectively. September , , interest rate asset swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and weighted-average pay rate %. The unrealized gains and losses these swaps are deferred and recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million September , , while deferred gains such contracts totaled $ million September , . FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company\' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal . dollar value terms the related currency\' historically high correlation with the . dollar. Foreign exchange forward contracts are carried fair value other current liabilities. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and marked market through earnings. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products and purchases raw material, sub-assemblies, and assembled finished goods currencies other than the functional currency. majority these transactions are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge the currency exchange risks associated with these probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase these foreign exchange option contracts. The term the Company\' foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions, probable but not firmly committed transactions, partially finance the foreign risk management program, currently does not extend beyond six months. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are generally recorded income shareholders\' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses accounting hedges realized before the settlement date the related hedged transaction are also generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not accounted for hedges are recorded income component interest and other income (expense), net. Sold interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not qualify accounting hedges. Premiums associated with sold foreign exchange option contracts are marked market through earnings. The following table provides information about the Company\' foreign currency derivative financial instruments outstanding September , and . The information provided . dollar amounts, presented the Company\' consolidated financial statements. For foreign currency exchange contracts, the table presents the notional amount ( contract exchange rates) and the weighted-average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. The combined increase Yen denominated forward contracts and options the result increasing net sales Japan and the substantial appreciation the Yen during . Generally, all instruments mature within months. Miscellaneous other currencies consist primarily the Canadian and Australian dollars. --------------------------- --------------------------- WEIGHTED-AVERAGE WEIGHTED-AVERAGE NOTIONAL CONTRACT RATE NOTIONAL CONTRACT RATE AMOUNT STRIKE PRICE AMOUNT STRIKE PRICE -------- ---------------- -------- ---------------- millions, except average contract rates and strike prices Foreign currency spot forward contracts: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro German Marks......................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total currency spot forward contracts....... $ $ ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ ( ) $ ( ) ====== ====== Foreign currency purchased call options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro German Marks......................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total purchased call options............ $ $ ------ ------ Foreign currency purchased put options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro German Marks......................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total purchased put options............. $ , $ , ------ ------ Total foreign currency purchased options.... $ , $ , ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ $ ====== ====== Foreign currency sold call options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro German Marks......................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total sold call options................. ------ ------ Foreign currency sold put options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ Euro German Marks......................... $ $ Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total sold put options.................. ------ ------ Total foreign currency sold options......... $ $ ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ ( ) $ ( ) ====== ====== ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE - ------------------------------------------ -------- Financial Statements: Report KPMG LLP, Independent Auditors.................. Consolidated Balance Sheets September , , and September , ...................................... Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , .......................... Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , ............. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , .......................... Notes Consolidated Financial Statements................ Financial Statement Schedule: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule --Valuation and qualifying accounts.......... All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . connection with our audits the consolidated financial statements, have also audited the accompanying financial statement schedule. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic consolidated financial statements taken whole, presents fairly, all material respects, the information set forth therein. / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California October , CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS) SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ----------------- ----------------- ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents................................. $ , $ , Short-term investments.................................... , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively............................................ Inventories............................................... Deferred tax assets....................................... Other current assets...................................... ------ ------ Total current assets.................................... , , Property, plant, and equipment, net....................... Other assets.............................................. ------ ------ Total assets............................................ $ , $ , ====== ====== LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable.......................................... $ $ Accrued expenses.......................................... ------ ------ Total current liabilities............................... , , Long-term debt.............................................. Deferred tax liabilities.................................... ------ ------ Total liabilities....................................... , , ====== ====== Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock, par value; , shares authorized, issued and outstanding............................................. Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively............................... , Retained earnings......................................... , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)............. ( ) ------ ------ Total shareholders\' equity.............................. , , ------ ------ Total liabilities and shareholders\' equity.............. $ , $ , ====== ====== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ------------------------------------------- -------- -------- --------- Net sales................................................... $ , $ , $ , Cost sales............................................... , , , -------- -------- --------- Gross margin................................................ , , , -------- -------- --------- Operating expenses: Research and development.................................. Selling, general, and administrative...................... , Special charges: -process research and development..................... -- Restructuring costs..................................... -- Termination license agreement........................ -- -- -------- -------- --------- Total operating expenses.............................. , , , -------- -------- --------- Operating income (loss)..................................... ( , ) Gains from sales investment.............................. -- Interest and other income, net.............................. -------- -------- --------- Total interest and other income, net........................ -------- -------- --------- Income (loss) before provision for income taxes............. ( , ) Provision for income taxes.................................. -- -------- -------- --------- Net income (loss)........................................... $ $ $ ( , ) ======== ======== ========= Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic..................................................... $ $ $ ( ) Diluted................................................... $ $ $ ( ) Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic..................................................... , , , Diluted................................................... , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS) PREFERRED STOCK COMMON STOCK ACCUMULATED OTHER TOTAL ------------------------- ------------------------- RETAINED COMPREHENSIVE SHAREHOLDERS\' SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT EARNINGS INCOME (LOSS) EQUITY -------------- -------- -------------- -------- -------- ------------------ ------------- ( THOUSANDS) ( THOUSANDS) Balances September , ................ -- $ -- , $ $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income (loss): Net loss.............. -- -- -- -- ( , ) -- ( , ) Foreign currency translation......... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------- Total comprehensive income (loss)..... ( , ) Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans and connection with the acquisition NeXT... -- -- , -- -- Series non-voting convertible preferred stock issued.......... -- -- -- -- ------ ---- ------- ------ ------- ----- ------- Balances September , ................ , ( ) , Components comprehensive income (loss): Net income............ -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation......... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------- Total comprehensive income (loss)..... Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans........ -- -- , -- -- Common stock issued connection with the acquisition certain assets PCC......... -- -- , -- -- Tax benefit related disqualifying dispositions stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- ------ ---- ------- ------ ------- ----- ------- Balances September , ................ , ( ) , Components comprehensive income (loss): Net income............ -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation......... -- -- -- -- -- Unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax................. -- -- -- -- -- Reclassification adjustment for gains available-for-sale securities included net income....... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------- Total comprehensive income (loss)... Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans........ -- -- , -- -- Common stock issued connection with the Company\' redemption long-term debt..... -- -- , -- -- Common stock repurchased........... -- -- ( , ) ( ) -- -- ( ) Tax benefit related disqualifying dispositions stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- ------ ---- ------- ------ ------- ----- ------- Balances September , ................ $ , $ , $ , $ $ , ====== ==== ======= ====== ======= ===== ======= See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( MILLIONS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ------------------------------------------- -------- -------- -------- Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year............ $ , $ , $ , ------ ------ ------ Operating: Net income (loss)........................................... ( , ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization............................. Provision for deferred income taxes....................... ( ) ( ) Loss sale property, plant, and equipment............ -- -- Gains from sales investment............................ ( ) ( ) -- -process research and development....................... -- Changes operating assets and liabilities, net effects the acquisition NeXT: Accounts receivable....................................... Inventories............................................... Other current assets...................................... ( ) Other assets.............................................. ( ) ( ) Accounts payable.......................................... ( ) Accrued restructuring costs............................... ( ) Other current liabilities................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash generated operating activities.................. ------ ------ ------ Investing: Purchase short-term investments.......................... ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Proceeds from sales and maturities short-term investments............................................... , , Purchases long-term investments.......................... ( ) -- -- Proceeds from property, plant and equipment retirements..... Purchase property, plant, and equipment.................. ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used for acquisition technology..................... -- ( ) ( ) Proceeds from sales investment........................... -- Other....................................................... ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash used for investing activities...................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Financing: Decrease notes payable banks.......................... -- ( ) ( ) Proceeds from issuance preferred stock................... -- -- Proceeds from issuance common stock...................... Cash used for repurchase common stock.................... ( ) -- -- ------ ------ ------ Cash generated financing activities.................. ------ ------ ------ Total cash generated (used for).......................... ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash and cash equivalents, end the year.................. $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest.................... $ $ $ Cash paid (received) for income taxes, net................ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Noncash transactions: Issuance common stock for redemption long-term debt.................................................. $ -- -- Issuance common stock for acquisition PCC assets................................................ -- $ -- Issuance common stock for acquisition NeXT........ -- -- $ See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software and peripherals for sale primarily education, creative, consumer, and business customers. BASIS PRESENTATION AND PREPARATION The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. During the first quarter , the Company amended its -laws provide that beginning its fiscal year would end the last Saturday September rather than the last Friday. Likewise, beginning with the first fiscal quarter each the Company\' fiscal quarters now also end Saturday rather than Friday. Accordingly, one day was added the first quarter that the quarter ended Saturday, December , . These changes did not have material effect the Company\' revenue results operations for any quarter during fiscal . Fiscal years , and , each -week years, ended September , , and , respectively. Approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. The next -week year fiscal . FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. INVESTMENTS All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents. Investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. Investments with maturities greater than twelve months are classified long-term assets. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. These unrealized gains losses include any unrealized losses and gains interest rate contracts accounted for hedges against the available-for-sale securities. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE-SHEET RISK the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. The Company does not hold transact financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) The Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company\' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal . dollar value terms the related currency\' historically high correlation with the . dollar. Foreign exchange forward contracts are carried fair value other current liabilities. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and amortized over the life the option. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products and purchases raw material, subassemblies, and assembled finished goods currencies other than the functional currency. majority these transactions are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge the currency exchange risks associated with these probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase these foreign exchange option contracts. The term the Company\' foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions, probable but not firmly committed transactions, partially finance the foreign exchange risk management program currently does not extend beyond six months. addition, the Company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts hedge certain intercompany loan transactions. These forward contracts effectively change certain foreign currency denominated debt into . dollar denominated debt, which better matches against the Company\' . dollar denominated cash equivalents and short-term investments. Interest rate and foreign exchange instruments generally qualify accounting hedges their maturity dates are the same the hedged transactions and the hedged transactions meet certain requirements. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions regular basis based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event determined hedge ineffective, including and when the hedged transactions longer exists, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are generally recorded income shareholders\' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses accounting hedges realized before the settlement date the related hedged transaction are also generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not accounted for hedges are recorded income component interest and other income (expense), net. Sold interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not qualify accounting hedges. Premiums associated with sold foreign exchange option contracts are marked market through earnings. INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation and amortization are computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, from years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms estimated useful lives for leasehold improvements. LONG-LIVED ASSETS The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount, including the unamortized portion any allocated goodwill, future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets, including any allocated goodwill, exceeds its fair market value. The recoverability enterprise level goodwill assessed whenever the facts and circumstances suggest the asset may impaired. The Company assesses the recoverability enterprise level goodwill determining whether the unamortized goodwill balance can recovered through undiscounted future cash flows. For the three years ended September , , the Company has made adjustments its long-lived assets except those made connection with the restructuring actions described Note . STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The Company measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method and has provided Note pro forma disclosures the effect net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The Company translates the assets and liabilities its foreign sales subsidiaries year-end exchange rates. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged "accumulated translation adjustment" included "accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" shareholders\' equity. The Company\' foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other entities use the . dollar the functional currency and translate monetary assets and liabilities year-end exchange rates, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations are included the Company\' results operations and were not significant , . NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) REVENUE RECOGNITION The Company recognizes revenue the time products are shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns, price protection, rebates, and other sales programs. Historically, actual amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied significantly from estimated amounts. During , the Company adopted the American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , "Software Revenue Recognition," modified SOP - , "Modification SOP - With Respect Certain Transactions". SOP - establishes standards relating the recognition software revenue. SOP - was effective for transactions entered into the Company beginning the first quarter fiscal . The adoption SOP - did not have material impact the Company\' results operations. WARRANTY EXPENSE The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. ADVERTISING COSTS Advertising costs are charged expense the first time the advertising takes place. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , "Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed," has not materially affected the Company. EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE Basic earnings (loss) per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. The dilutive effect convertible securities reflected using the -converted method. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share ( thousands, except net income (loss) and per share amounts): FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , - ------------------- ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ Numerator ( millions): Numerator for basic earnings (loss) per share--net income (loss)............... $ $ $ ( , ) Interest expense convertible debt..... -- -------- -------- -------- Numerator for diluted earnings (loss) per share--adjusted net income (loss)...... $ $ $ ( , ) -------- -------- -------- Denominator: Denominator for basic earnings (loss) per share--weighted-average shares outstanding............................ , , , Effect dilutive securities: Convertible preferred stock.............. , , -- Dilutive options......................... , , -- Convertible debt......................... , , -- -------- -------- -------- Dilutive potential common shares........... , , -- -------- -------- -------- Denominator for diluted earnings (loss) per share--adjusted weighted-average shares and assumed conversions.................. , , , ======== ======== ======== Basic earnings (loss) per share............ $ $ $ ( ) ======== ======== ======== Diluted earnings (loss) per share.......... $ $ $ ( ) ======== ======== ======== Options purchase million and million shares common stock were outstanding the end and , respectively, that were not included the computation diluted earnings per share because the options\' exercise price was greater than the average market price the Company\' common shares for those years and, therefore, the effect would antidilitive. options outstanding were included the calculation diluted earnings per share for because the Company had net loss and would have been antidilutive. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The Company adopted SFAS . , "Reporting Comprehensive Income," beginning with the Company\' first quarter . SFAS . separates comprehensive income into two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. While SFAS . establishes new rules for the reporting and display comprehensive income, has impact the Company\' net income (loss) total shareholders\' equity. The Company\' other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency and from unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) SEGMENT INFORMATION During , the Company adopted SFAS . , "Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information." SFAS . supersedes SFAS . , "Financial Reporting for Segments Business Enterprise," replacing the "industry segment" approach with the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. SFAS . also requires disclosures about products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis. The adoption SFAS . did not affect results operations the financial position the Company but did affect the disclosure segment information. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS June , SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," was issued. SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . requires entity recognize all derivatives either assets liabilities the statement financial position and measure those instruments fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. June , SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities--Deferral the Effective Date FASB Statement . ," was issued. The statement defers the effective date SFAS . until the first quarter fiscal . Although the Company continues review the effect the implementation SFAS . , the Company does not currently believe its adoption will have material impact its financial position overall trends results operations and does not believe adoption will result significant changes its financial risk management practices. However, the impact adoption SFAS . the Company\' results operations dependent upon the fair values the Company\' derivatives and related financial instruments the date adoption. March , the AICPA issued SOP - , "Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use," which provides guidance accounting for the costs developing computer software intended for internal use. SOP - must adopted the Company effective fiscal and not expected have material impact the Company\' results operations financial position. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities amortized cost, which approximates fair value, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments September , , and September , ( millions): SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , AMORTIZED COST AMORTIZED COST ------------------ ------------------ . Treasury securities.................... $ $ . corporate securities................... Foreign securities.......................... ------ ------ Total included cash and cash equivalents............................. , , . Treasury securities.................... -- . corporate securities................... Foreign securities.......................... ------ ------ Total included short-term investments............................. , ------ ------ Total..................................... $ , $ , ====== ====== September , and , substantially all the Company\' investments had maturities less than twelve months. The Company\' . corporate securities include commercial paper and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participation and certificates deposit with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments have generally been held until maturity. Gross unrealized gains and losses were negligible September , and . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged primarily collateral support letters credit. TRADE RECEIVABLES The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and various education and consumer channels. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables through the use flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and credit insurance for certain customers Latin America and Asia. Although none the Company\' customers accounted for more than % net sales any the last three fiscal years, times considerable trade receivables, which are not covered collateral, are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES AND FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS The following table shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , and ( millions). SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ---------------------------------- ---------------------------------- NOTIONAL FAIR CREDIT RISK NOTIONAL FAIR CREDIT RISK PRINCIPAL VALUE AMOUNTS PRINCIPAL VALUE AMOUNTS --------- -------- ----------- --------- -------- ----------- Transactions qualifying accounting hedges: Interest rate instruments: Swaps....................................... $ $ ( ) $ -- $ $ $ Purchased floors............................ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ $ $ Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts...................... $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ -- Purchased options........................... $ , $ $ -- $ , $ $ Transactions other than accounting hedges: Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts...................... $ $ ( ) $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Purchased options........................... $ $ $ $ $ $ Sold options................................ $ $( ) $ -- $ $( ) $ -- The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , and . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. The interest rate swaps, which qualify accounting hedges, generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate year debt floating-rate debt and convert the floating rate investments fixed rate. The maturity date for $ million the asset swaps October with the remaining debt and asset swaps maturing February and September . September , and , interest rate debt swaps had weighted-average receive rate %. The weighted-average pay rate the debt swaps was % and % September , and , respectively. September , , interest rate asset swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and weighted-average pay rate %. The unrealized gains and losses these swaps are deferred and recognized income NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million September , , while deferred gains such contracts totaled $ million September , . Purchased floors are options that limit the Company\' exposure falling interest rates its cash equivalents and short-term investments locking minimum interest rate. The Company receives payment when interest rates fall below predetermined level. purchased floor generally qualifies for hedge accounting treatment and reported the balance sheet its premium cost, which amortized over the life the floor. The purchased floors are generally designated and effective hedges against interest rate risk the Company\' securities classified available-for-sale and are carried fair value other current liabilities with the unrealized gains and losses recorded component accumulated other comprehensive income. Purchased floors outstanding September , , provided the Company with the option weighted-average interest rate % the notional amount $ million. Gains and losses are recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , and . The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are also carried fair value other current liabilities with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. September , , all foreign exchange forward contracts held the Company mature within three months. the option contract designated and effective hedge firmly committed transaction, probable but not firmly committed transaction, then any gain loss deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such contracts were not significant September , and . the option contract used hedge asset liability, then the option carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transaction. September , , maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts and sold option contracts ranged from one four months. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the number agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' ten-year unsecured notes. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, which mature , the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. These agreements require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds are exceeded. The amounts held margin accounts were not significant September , . NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) LONG-TERM DEBT The carrying amounts and estimated fair values the Company\' long-term debt are follows ( millions): SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------- ------------------- CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE -------- -------- -------- -------- Ten-year unsecured notes( )................... $ $ $ $ Convertible subordinated notes( )............. $ -- $ -- $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) The fair value the ten-year unsecured notes based their listed market values September , and . ( ) The carrying amount the convertible subordinated notes prior consideration the related issuance costs. Their fair value reflective the underlying conversion feature the Notes. CONVERTIBLE NOTES During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the Notes) certain qualified parties private placement. The Notes were sold % par, paid interest semiannually, and matured June , not converted earlier. The Notes were convertible their holders any time after September , , conversion price $ per share subject adjustments defined the Note agreement. Notes had been converted September , . The Notes were redeemable the Company % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve month period beginning June , , and % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve month period beginning June , . The Notes were subordinated all present and future senior indebtedness the Company defined the Note agreement. addition, the Company incurred approximately $ million costs associated with the issuance the Notes. These costs were accounted for deduction from the face amount the Notes and were being amortized over the life the Notes. October , the Company registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) $ million the aggregate principal amount the Notes, including the related shares common stock issuable upon conversion these Notes. April , , the Company called for redemption the Notes. Not including approximately $ million unamortized debt issuance costs, debentures aggregate principal amount outstanding totaled approximately $ million March , . During the third quarter , debenture holders chose convert virtually all the outstanding debentures common stock rate $ per share resulting the issuance approximately million shares the Company\' common stock. UNSECURED NOTES During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . EQUITY INVESTMENT AND RELATED GAINS September , , the Company owned % the outstanding stock ARM Holdings plc (ARM), privately held company the United Kingdom involved the design high performance microprocessors and related technology. The Company had accounted for this investment using the equity NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) method through September , . April , , ARM completed initial public offering its stock the London Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ National Market. The Company sold % its shares the offering for gain before foreign taxes approximately $ million, which was recognized other income. Foreign tax recognized this gain was approximately $ million. the time equity method investee sells existing newly issued common stock unrelated parties excess its book value, the equity method requires the net book value the investment adjusted reflect the investor\' share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from the sale. the Company\' policy record adjustment reflecting its share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from such sale gain loss other income. Consequently, the Company also recognized the third quarter other income approximately $ million reflect its remaining % ownership interest the increased net book value ARM following its initial public offering. September , , the carrying value the Company\' investment ARM carried other assets the consolidated balance sheet was approximately $ million. October , , the Company sold million shares (split adjusted) ARM stock. result this sale, the Company\' ownership interest ARM fell %. Consequently, beginning the first quarter fiscal , the Company ceased accounting for its remaining investment ARM using the equity method and categorized its remaining shares available-for-sale requiring the shares carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses net taxes reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. During fiscal , the Company sold total approximately million shares (split adjusted) ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. September , , the Company holds million shares ARM stock valued $ million. The fair value the Company\' investment ARM reflected other assets September , , with offsetting amount net $ million related deferred taxes recognized accumulated other comprehensive income. OTHER LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS During the fourth quarter , the Company invested $ million Samsung Electronics ., Ltd (Samsung) assist the further expansion Samsung\' TFT-LCD flat-panel display production capacity. The investment the form three year unsecured bonds, which convertible into approximately , shares Samsung common stock beginning June . The bonds carry annual coupon rate % and pay total yield maturity % redeemed their maturity. June , the Company invested $ million Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), global Internet content delivery service. The investment, the form convertible preferred stock, convertible into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits). The Company restricted from selling more than % its shares within one year after the date the closing public offering Akamai\' stock. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT DETAILS INVENTORIES ( millions) -------- -------- Purchased parts............................................. $ $ Work process............................................. Finished goods.............................................. --- --- Total inventories........................................... $ $ === === PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT ( millions) -------- -------- Land and buildings.......................................... $ $ Machinery and equipment..................................... Office furniture and equipment.............................. Leasehold improvements...................................... ---- ---- Accumulated depreciation and amortization................... ( ) ( ) ---- ---- Net property, plant, and equipment.......................... $ $ ==== ==== ACCRUED EXPENSES ( millions) -------- -------- Accrued compensation and employee benefits.................. $ $ Accrued marketing and distribution.......................... Accrued warranty and related costs.......................... Other current liabilities................................... ---- ---- Total accrued expenses...................................... $ $ ==== ==== INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) ( millions) -------- -------- -------- Interest income.......................................... $ $ $ Interest expense......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss)............................. ( ) ( ) Net premiums and discounts foreign exchange instruments............................................ ( ) ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net.............................. ( ) ( ) ---- ---- --- $ $ $ ==== ==== === NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SPECIAL CHARGES RESTRUCTURING OPERATIONS AND RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS the second quarter , the Company announced and began implement restructuring plan designed reduce costs and return the Company profitability. The restructuring plan was necessitated decreased demand for the Company\' products and the Company\' adoption new strategic direction. These actions resulted charge during $ million. During , the Company announced and began implement supplemental restructuring actions meet the foregoing objectives the plan. The Company recognized $ million charge during for the estimated incremental costs those actions. All material restructuring actions contemplated under the plan were essentially complete the end fiscal . The combined and restructuring actions consisted terminating approximately , full-time employees; canceling vacating certain facility leases result those employee terminations; writing down certain land, buildings, and equipment sold result downsizing operations and outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling contracts for projects and technologies that were not critical the Company\' core business strategy. The restructuring actions under the plan resulted cash expenditures $ million and noncash asset write-downs $ million from the second quarter through September , . the combined and restructuring charges $ million, approximately $ million was determined excess during the fourth quarter and was reversed. The remaining balance $ million September , comprised payments over the next two years leases and contracts that had been terminated prior fiscal . The Company expects the remaining accrual will result cash expenditures $ million over the next two years. The following table depicts the restructuring activity through September , , associated with the and restructuring actions described above ( millions): PAYMENTS EMPLOYEES PAYMENTS WRITE-DOWN PAYMENTS INVOLUNTARILY CANCELED FACILITY OPERATING ASSETS CANCELED TERMINATED( ) LEASES ( ) SOLD ( ) CONTRACTS ( ) TOTAL ------------- ----------------- ---------------- ------------- -------- Net Additions during ...... $ $ $ $ $ Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... Net Additions during ...... Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... Adjustments during ........ ( ) -- Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... -- Adjustments during ........ ( ) ( ) -- ( ) Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) -- ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... $ -- $ $ -- $ $ ==== ==== ==== ==== ===== - ------------------------ ( ): Cash; ( ): Noncash. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SPECIAL CHARGES (CONTINUED) RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the fourth quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting charge operations $ million. The net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the fourth quarter reflects the $ million excess reserves related the and restructuring actions. The total cost these actions $ million, which comprised $ million for contract cancellation charges associated with the closure the Company\' outsourced data center and $ million for contract cancellation charges related supply and development agreements previously discontinued. The Company expects these actions result cash expenditures $ million over the next year. During the second quarter , the Company took certain actions improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. These restructuring actions resulted the Company recognizing charge operations approximately $ million during the second quarter , which was comprised $ million for severance benefits paid employees involuntarily terminated, $ million for the write-down operating assets disposed , and $ million for payments canceled contracts. These actions resulted the termination approximately employees and are substantially complete September , . TECHNOLOGY ACQUISITION May , the Company acquired certain technology that was under development and had alternative future use. The acquisition resulted the recognition $ million purchased -process research and development, which was charged operations upon acquisition. TERMINATION LICENSE AGREEMENT August , the Company agreed acquire certain assets Power Computing Corporation (PCC), licensed distributor the Mac operating system, including PCC\' customer database and its license distribute the Mac . The agreement with PCC also included release claims between the parties. January , , the Company completed its acquisition certain assets from PCC. The total purchase price was approximately $ million, which $ million was expensed the fourth quarter "termination license agreement" and $ million was recorded goodwill the second quarter . The goodwill being amortized over three years. The purchase price was comprised approximately million shares the Company\' common stock valued $ million, forgiveness $ million receivables due from PCC, and assumption the Company $ million certain customer support liabilities PCC. NEXT ACQUISITION February , , the Company acquired all the outstanding shares NeXT Software, Inc. (NeXT). NeXT, headquartered Redwood City, California, had developed, marketed and supported software enabling customers implement business applications the Internet World Wide Web, intranets and enterprise-wide client server networks. The total purchase price was $ million and was comprised cash payments $ million and the issuance million shares the Company\' common stock the NeXT shareholders valued approximately $ million according the terms the purchase agreement; the issuance approximately million options purchase the Company\' common stock the NeXT optionholders valued approximately $ million; cash payments $ million the NeXT debtholders; cash payments $ million for closing and related costs, and $ million net liabilities assumed. The acquisition was accounted for purchase; and, accordingly, the operating results NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SPECIAL CHARGES (CONTINUED) pertaining NeXT subsequent the date acquisition have been included the Company\' operating results. The total purchase price was allocated purchased -process research and development ($ million) and goodwill and other intangible assets ($ million). The purchased -process research and development was charged operations upon acquisition, and the goodwill and other intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over two three years. NOTE --INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): -------- --------- --------- Federal: Current.................................................. $ $ -- $ -- Deferred................................................. -- -- --- --------- --------- -- -- --- --------- --------- State: Current.................................................. -- -- -- Deferred................................................. -- -- --- --------- --------- -- -- --- --------- --------- Foreign: Current.................................................. -- Deferred................................................. ( ) -- --- --------- --------- -- --- --------- --------- Provision for income taxes................................. $ $ $ -- === ========= ========= The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings (loss) approximately $ million, $ million, and $( ) million , , and , respectively. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Except for such indefinitely reinvested earnings, the Company provides for federal and state income taxes currently undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED) September , and , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): -------- -------- Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves................ $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves.................... Basis capital assets and investments................... Tax losses and credits.................................... ---- ---- Total deferred tax assets................................. Less valuation allowance.................................... ---- ---- Net deferred tax assets..................................... ---- ---- Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries....................... Available-for-sale securities............................. -- Other..................................................... ---- ---- Total deferred tax liabilities............................ ---- ---- Net deferred tax asset...................................... $ $ ==== ==== September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire principally and . This does not include approximately $ million remaining operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT, which expire - , and the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . Most the remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and tax benefits certain foreign jurisdictions. The net change the total valuation allowance was decrease $ million. Management believes more likely than not forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED) reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income (loss) before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Computed expected tax (benefit)........................ $ $ $( ) State taxes, net federal effect..................... ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries......................................... ( ) ( ) -- Purchase accounting and asset acquisitions............. Valuation allowance.................................... ( ) ( ) Other individually immaterial items.................... ( ) ----- ---- ----- Provision for income taxes............................. $ $ $ -- ===== ==== ===== Effective tax rate..................................... % % % The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the United States Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although most the issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. NOTE --SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY STOCK REPURCHASE PLAN July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. September , , the Company had repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. PREFERRED STOCK August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock ("preferred stock") for $ million. Except under limited circumstances, the shares preferred stock may not sold Microsoft prior August , . Upon any sale the preferred stock Microsoft, the shares will automatically converted into shares Apple common stock conversion price $ per share, and the shares can converted Microsoft\' option such price after August , . Each share preferred stock entitled receive, and when declared the Company\' Board Directors, dividend $ per share per annum, payable preference any dividend the Company\' common stock. Additionally, the dividends per share paid the common stock are greater than the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, then the Board Directors shall declare additional dividend such that the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, shall equal the dividends per share paid the common stock. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY (CONTINUED) EXECUTIVE OFFICER STOCK PLAN The Company has effect Executive Officer Stock Plan (the Plan), which replaced the Stock Option Plan terminated April , the Stock Option Plan terminated October , and the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan terminated July . Options granted before these plans\' termination dates remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan the Chairman the Board Directors, executive officers the Company the level Senior Vice President and above, and other key employees. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. total , , shares have been authorized for issuance under the Plan, which , , shares are reserved for future issuance September , . EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. total , , shares have been authorized for issuance under the Plan, which , , shares are reserved for future issuance September , . DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP), for which directors the Company are eligible. Options granted under the DSOP vest three equal installments, each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. total , shares have been authorized for issuance under the DSOP, which , shares remain reserved for future issuance. Supplementally and separate from the DSOP, , options had been granted total two members the Company\' Board Directors, and were outstanding September , . EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end the six-month offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. During and , , and million shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. SENIOR OFFICERS RESTRICTED PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN November , the Company\' Board Directors issued approximately , fully vested shares and cash settlement shares certain officers the Company under the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan (the PSP) based upon the achievement certain performance goals established advance the Compensation Committee the Board. Immediately after these shares were issued, the Company\' Board Directors terminated the PSP. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY (CONTINUED) SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN May , the Company adopted shareholder rights plan and distributed dividend one right purchase one share common stock ( Right) for each outstanding share common stock the Company. The Rights would have become exercisable certain limited circumstances involving potential business combination transaction the Company and would have become initially exercisable price $ per share. Following certain other events after the Rights had become exercisable, each Right would have entitled its holder purchase for $ amount common stock the Company, , certain circumstances, securities the acquiror, having then-current market value two times the exercise price the Right. The Rights expired April , . STOCK OPTION ACTIVITY summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , and , and September , , follows (option amounts are presented thousands): YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- NUMBER WEIGHTED- NUMBER WEIGHTED- NUMBER WEIGHTED- AVERAGE AVERAGE AVERAGE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE -------- -------------- -------- -------------- -------- -------------- Options outstanding--beginning year.............................. , $ , $ , $ Granted (price equals FMV)........ , $ , $ , $ Granted (price less than FMV)..... -- $ -- -- $ -- , $ Exercised......................... ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ Forfeited......................... ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ------ ------- ------- Options outstanding--end year.... , $ , $ , $ ====== ======= ======= Options exercisable end year.............................. , $ , $ , $ The options granted fiscal price less than fair market value were existing NeXT optionholders part the total purchase price paid for NeXT (see Note ). The options outstanding September , , have been segregated into five ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): OPTIONS OUTSTANDING OPTIONS EXERCISABLE ----------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- WEIGHTED- OPTIONS AVERAGE WEIGHTED OPTIONS WEIGHTED OUTSTANDING REMAINING AVERAGE EXERCISABLE AVERAGE SEPTEMBER , CONTRACTUAL LIFE EXERCISE SEPTEMBER , EXERCISE YEARS PRICE PRICE ----------------- ---------------- -------- ----------------- -------- $ -$ ................... , $ , $ $ -$ .................. , $ $ $ -$ .................. , $ $ $ -$ .................. , $ $ $ -$ .................. , $ $ ------ ----- $ -$ ................... , $ , $ ====== ===== September , , approximately million options were reserved for future grant under the Company\' stock option plans. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY (CONTINUED) December , the Board Directors approved option exchange program allowing employees exchange all (but not less than all) their existing options (vested and unvested) with exercise price greater than $ , one-for-one basis for new options with exercise price $ , the fair market value the Company\' common stock December , , and new four year vesting schedule beginning December . total million options with weighted-average exercise price $ per share were exchanged for new options result this program. July , the Board Directors approved option exchange program allowing employees exchange all (but not less than all) their existing options (vested and unvested) purchase Apple common stock (other than options granted and assumed from NeXT) for options having exercise price $ and new three year vesting period beginning July . Approximately million options were repriced under this program. NOTE --STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , "Accounting for Stock Issued Employees," and related interpretations accounting for its employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) per share required SFAS . and has been determined the Company had accounted for its employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases subsequent September , , under the fair value method that statement. The fair values for these options and stock purchases were estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted-average fair value per share options granted during and includes the excess value the repriced options granted during those fiscal years less the value the related forfeited options the date the repriced options were granted. The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: --------- --------- --------- Expected life options.................... years years years Expected life stock purchases............ months months months Interest rate--stock options................ % % % Interest rate--stock purchases.............. % % % Volatility--stock options................... % % % Volatility--stock purchases................. % % % Dividend yields............................. Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year................... $ $ $ The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value traded options that have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because the NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (CONTINUED) Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, management\' opinion, the existing models not necessarily provide reliable single measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares are amortized pro forma net income (loss) over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The value the options granted NeXT optionholders has been included the total purchase price paid for NeXT and, therefore, not included the adjustment arrive the pro forma net loss. The Company\' pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): -------- -------- -------- Net income (loss)-- reported....................... $ $ $( , ) Net income (loss)--pro forma......................... $ $ $( , ) Net income (loss) per common share-- reported Basic.............................................. $ $ $ ( ) Diluted............................................ $ $ $ ( ) Net income (loss) per common share--pro forma Basic.............................................. $ $ $ ( ) Diluted............................................ $ $ $ ( ) SFAS . applicable only options granted shares issued subsequent September , , its pro forma effect was not fully reflected until . NOTE --COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES LEASE COMMITMENTS The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): FISCAL YEARS - ------------ ........................................................ $ ........................................................ ........................................................ ........................................................ ........................................................ Later years................................................. ---- Total minimum lease payments................................ $ ==== NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED) CONCENTRATIONS THE AVAILABLE SOURCES SUPPLY MATERIALS AND PRODUCT Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, "ASICs") are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\' CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules and levels, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. LITIGATION ABRAHAM AND EVELYN KOSTICK TRUST . PETER CRISP . January , purported shareholder derivative action was filed the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming the Company and its then directors defendants, seeking injunctive relief and damages for alleged acts mismanagement. Between February and October , the complaint was amended several times result the Courts\' rulings upon various demurrers filed the Company. The Third Amended Complaint was filed October , and eliminated the class action claims and restated claims against certain directors and former directors. November , the Company\' Board Directors appointed special investigation committee and engaged independent counsel assist the investigation the claims made the Third Amended Complaint. This matter was settled during the fourth quarter for amount not material the Company\' financial position results operations. MEN\' CLOTHING DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION FUND . MICHAEL SPINDLER . May , action was filed the California Superior Court naming defendants the Company and certain its current and former officers and directors and seeking compensatory and punitive damages for alleged misrepresentation and omission material facts about the Company\' operations and financial results. Between May and November , the complaint was has been amended several times result the Court\' rulings upon various demurrers the Company. January , the Company and three individual defendants brought motion dismiss the third amended complaint, and, March , the Court granted the motion dismiss the third amended complaint without leave amend. The plaintiffs filed appeal the Sixth Appellate District June . The Court Appeal heard oral argument November and has not yet ruled. "REPETITIVE STRESS INJURY" LITIGATION The Company was named approximately lawsuits between , alleging plaintiffs incurred -called "repetitive stress" injuries their upper extremities result using keyboards and mouse input devices sold the Company. These actions are similar those filed against other major suppliers NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED) personal computers. All but three the cases against the Company were dismissed the end fiscal . During fiscal , the remaining three cases were dismissed. MONITOR-SIZE LITIGATION August , the Company was named, along with other entities, including computer manufacturers and computer monitor vendors, putative nationwide class action filed the California Superior Court for Orange County, styled Keith Long . . Amazing Technologies Corp. . The complaint alleges each the defendants engaged false misleading advertising with respect the size computer monitor screens. Also August , the Company was named the sole defendant purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Camden County, entitled Mahendri Shah . Apple Computer, Inc. Subsequently, November , the Company, along with other entities, was named purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Essex County, entitled Maizes & Maizes . Apple Computer, Inc. .. The complaints all these cases seek restitution the form refunds product exchange, damages, punitive damages, and attorneys fees. December , the California Judicial Council ordered all the California actions, including Long, coordinated for purposes pretrial proceedings and trial before single judge. These actions were subsequently coordinated under the name Computer Monitor Litigation. July , the Court ordered all the California cases dismissed without leave amend plaintiffs residing California. March , the Court granted final approval settlement resolving all claims and all subsequent appeals have been dismissed. EXPONENTIAL TECHNOLOGY INC. . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. Plaintiff, Exponential Technology, Inc. (Exponential), alleged the Company, which was investor Exponential, breached its fiduciary duty Exponential misusing confidential information and that the Company fraudulently misrepresented the facts about allowing Exponential sell its processors the Company\' Mac licensees. The lawsuit was filed California Superior Court for Santa Clara County. November , the Company filed demurrer portions the complaint, which the Court granted part. January , the plaintiff filed Amended Complaint. March , the Company filed cross-complaint for damages against Exponential alleging breach contract, negligent misrepresentation, and violations the California Corporations Code. This matter was settled during the fourth quarter for amount not material the Company\' financial position results operations. FTC INQUIRY--PRADO . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (AND RELATED ACTIONS) October , Apple began charging all . noneducation customers for live telephone technical support beyond days after purchase Apple products. late , the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) commenced investigation into customer complaints that Apple\' change technical support practices was either unfair contrary earlier representations certain customers. Four purported class action lawsuits were filed against Apple related this change. During the fourth quarter , the regional and national offices the FTC approved settlement with the Company, and settlement was approved the Court three the class action suits. November , two appeals were filed objecting the settlement and therefore the settlement stayed pending resolution the appeals. Settlement these matters was not material the Company\' financial position results operations. MICROWARE SYSTEMS CORPORATION . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. Plaintiff, Microware Systems Corporation (Microware), filed this action against the Company September , , the United States District Court for the Southern District Iowa. Microware alleges that NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED) the Company\' current release its Mac operating system, Mac , infringes Microware\' trademark for its real time operating system, - . Microware asserts claims for trademark infringement, false designation origin, dilution and common law trademark infringement and unfair competition. October , , Microware filed motion for preliminary injunction seeking enjoin the Company from using the designation "Mac " and order the Company cancel and withdraw all packaging and advertisements that mention "Mac ." The Company has opposed the motion for preliminary injunction and has filed motion for summary judgment against all Microware\' claims. The Court has not yet scheduled hearing date for the motion. OTHER LITIGATION The Company also subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. The results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty; however, the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any legal proceedings and claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition results operations. NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, and Japan. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, Filemaker, Inc. Each reportable operating segment provides similar products and services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described the Summary Significant Accounting Policies Note . The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales and operating income. Operating income for each segment includes revenue, cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Net sales are based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the reportable segment. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, income taxes, and nonrecurring charges for purchased -process research and development, restructuring, and acquisition related costs. Corporate expenses include research and development, manufacturing expenses not included segment cost sales, corporate marketing expenses, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, and intangible assets. Capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA (CONTINUED) Summary information segment follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Americas: Net Sales......................................... $ , $ , $ , Operating Income.................................. $ $ $ Depreciation and Amortization..................... $ $ $ Segment Assets ( )................................ $ $ $ Europe: Net Sales......................................... $ , $ , $ , Operating Income.................................. $ $ $ Depreciation and Amortization..................... $ $ $ Segment Assets.................................... $ $ $ Japan: Net Sales......................................... $ $ $ , Operating Income.................................. $ $ $ Depreciation and Amortization..................... $ $ $ Segment Assets.................................... $ $ $ Other Segments: Net Sales......................................... $ $ $ Operating Income.................................. $ $ $ Depreciation and Amortization..................... $ $ $ Segment Assets.................................... $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the United States. Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA (CONTINUED) reconciliation the Company\' segment operating income (loss), and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Segment Operating Income........................... $ $ $ Corporate Expenses, net............................ ( ) ( ) ( ) -process Research and Development................ -- ( ) ( ) Restructuring...................................... ( ) -- ( ) Termination License Agreement................... -- -- ( ) ------ ------ ------- Total Operating Income (loss).................... $ $ $( , ) ====== ====== ======= Segment Assets..................................... $ $ , $ , Corporate Assets................................... , , , ------ ------ ------- Total Assets..................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ======= Segment Depreciation and Amortization.............. $ $ $ Corporate Depreciation and Amortization............ ------ ------ ------- Total Depreciation and Amortization............ $ $ $ ====== ====== ======= large portion the Company\' net sales derived from its international operations. Also, majority the raw materials used the Company\' products obtained from sources outside the United States, and majority the products sold the Company assembled internationally the Company\' facilities Cork, Ireland and Singapore third-party vendors Taiwan, Korea, Mexico, and the United Kingdom. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , , . Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the United States, Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Net Sales: United States....................................... $ , $ , $ , Japan............................................... , Other Foreign Countries............................. , , , ------ ------ ------ Total Net Sales................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Long-Lived Assets: United States....................................... $ $ $ Japan............................................... Other Foreign Countries............................. ------ ------ ------ Total Long-Lived Assets........................... $ $ $ ====== ====== ====== NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA (CONTINUED) Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Net Sales: Power Macintosh..................................... $ , $ , $ , PowerBook........................................... , iMac ( )............................................ , , , iBook............................................... -- -- Software, Service, and Other Net Sales.............. , , , ------ ------ ------ Total Net Sales................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== - ------------------------ ( ) Net sales figures for iMac and include sales the Company\' previous consumer and education oriented Macintosh products. NOTE --SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) FOURTH QUARTER THIRD QUARTER SECOND QUARTER FIRST QUARTER -------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- (TABULAR AMOUNTS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin............................. $ $ $ $ Net income............................... $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic.................................. $ $ $ $ Diluted................................ $ $ $ $ Net sales................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin............................. $ $ $ $ Net income............................... $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic.................................. $ $ $ $ Diluted................................ $ $ $ $ Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income during the fourth, third, second, and first quarters included after tax gains resulting from the sale shares the Company\' investment ARM $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Gains before tax the sale ARM shares are recognized other income. Net income for the fourth quarter included net $ million restructuring charge for contract cancellation charges related previously outsourced services and previously discontinued business. Net income for the second quarter included $ million restructuring charge resulting from actions the Company improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations, which included moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. Net income for the third quarter included after tax gains resulting from the sale shares the Company\' investment ARM $ million. The third quarter also includes the recognition $ million purchased -process research and development charged operations upon acquisition. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( MILLIONS) CHARGED ALLOWANCE FOR BEGINNING COSTS AND ENDING DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS: BALANCE EXPENSES DEDUCTIONS( ) BALANCE - ------------------ --------- ---------- ------------- -------- Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. ITEM . CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT DIRECTORS Listed below are the Company\' directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. NAME POSITION WITH THE COMPANY AGE DIRECTOR SINCE - ---- ------------------------- -------- -------------- William . Campbell................. Director Gareth . Chang................... Director Millard . Drexler.................. Director Lawrence . Ellison................. Director Steven . Jobs...................... Director and interim Chief Executive Officer Edgar . Woolard, ................ Director Jerome . York...................... Director WILLIAM . CAMPBELL has been chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("INTUIT") since August . Since September , . Campbell has been acting Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors SanDisk Corporation and Great Plains Software. GARETH . . CHANG has served Chairman and Chief Executive Officer STAR since September . Prior joining STAR , . Chang was President Hughes Electronics International and Corporate Senior Vice President Hughes Electronics since . Previously, was Corporate Vice President McDonnell Douglas Corporation. currently executive director News Corp., and member the Advisory Council Nike Inc. MILLARD . DREXLER has been Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. since , and President the Gap, Inc. since . has also served the Chief Executive Officer the Gap Division since and the Chief Executive Officer Old Navy Inc. since . From served the Chief Operating Officer the Gap Division and from served the Chief Executive Officer Banana Republic, Inc. . Drexler currently director Restoration Hardware, Inc. LAWRENCE . ELLISON has been Chief Executive Officer and director Oracle Corporation ("ORACLE") since -founded Oracle May , and was President Oracle until June . . Ellison has been Chairman the Board Oracle since June . . Ellison also director SuperGen, Inc., Liberate Technologies, and Spring Group PLC. STEVEN . JOBS one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its interim Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. ("NEXT") and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. . Jobs currently director Gap Inc. EDGAR . WOOLARD, . retired Chairman the Board Directors . . DuPont Nemours & . ("DUPONT") October , having served Chariman since . remains director DuPont. Previously, held the positions President and Chief Executive Officer DuPont. currently director CITIGROUP, Inc. and DuPont. JEROME . YORK Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Corporation, private investment and consulting concern founded . Previously, was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation from September October . May , joined International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and served director IBM from January August . Prior joining IBM, . York served number executive positions Chrysler Corporation, including Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May May . also served director Chrysler Corporation from . . York also director Waste Management, Inc., MGM Grand, Inc., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. and National TechTeam, Inc. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled "DIRECTORS". FRED . ANDERSON, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ) joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ("ADP"), position held from August March . TIMOTHY . COOK, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations (age ) joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation ("COMPAQ"). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. NANCY . HEINEN, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ) joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . MITCHELL MANDICH, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales (age ) joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. . Mandich has also served the Company the position Vice President, North American Business Division. Prior joining the Company, . Mandich held the position Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Service with NeXT from December through February . JONATHAN RUBINSTEIN, Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated ("FIREPOWER"), from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. AVADIS TEVANIAN, ., ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. SINA TAMADDON, Senior Vice President, Service & Support (age ) joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. SECTION ( ) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company, the absence Form Form written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that, during fiscal year , its officers, directors and greater than ten percent beneficial owners complied with all applicable Section ( ) filing requirements. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION INFORMATION REGARDING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, interim Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the "NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS"). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE SECURITIES RESTRICTED UNDERLYING ALL OTHER NAME AND FISCAL SALARY BONUS STOCK AWARDS OPTIONS COMPENSATION PRINCIPAL POSITION YEAR ($) ($) ($) (#) ($) - ------------------ -------- -------- -------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ANNUAL COMPENSATION LONG-TERM COMPENSATION Steven . Jobs...................... -- -- -- -- interim Chief Executive Officer -- -- -- -- -- -- -- , ( ) -- Fred . Anderson.................... , -- -- , , ( ) Executive Vice President , -- -- , ( ) , ( ) and Chief Financial Officer , -- , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Timothy . Cook..................... , -- -- , , ( ) Senior Vice President, , , ( ) -- , , ( ) Worldwide Operations -- -- -- -- -- Mitchell Mandich.................... , -- -- , , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- -- , ( ) , ( ) Worldwide Sales , , -- , ( )( ) , ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein................. , -- -- , , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- -- , ( ) , ( ) Hardware Engineering , , , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) - -------------------------- ( ) . Jobs was granted , stock options his capacity director the Company pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) Includes the replacement , , , and , options that were previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Mandich and Rubinstein, respectively, and canceled pursuant the December stock option exchange program. Other than the replacement options, Messrs. Anderson and Rubinstein were not granted any options during the fiscal year. ( ) Includes $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) For fiscal year , these amounts represent the value February , the Common Stock underlying the Performance Shares earned . Anderson and . Rubinstein under the terms the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan. . Anderson and . Rubinstein earned , and , performance shares, respectively. dividends were paid the Performance Shares. the last day fiscal year , . Anderson and . Rubistein held other Performance Shares restricted stock. ( ) Includes the replacement , , , and , options that were previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Mandich and Rubinstein respectively, and canceled pursuant the July stock option exchange program. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms its ( ) plan. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) connection with his employment, . Cook received one-time hiring bonus the amount $ , . ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms its ( ) plan. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms its ( ) plan. ( ) Includes , NeXT options that were converted into Apple options during fiscal year connection with Apple\' acquisition NeXT. ( ) Includes $ , from the disqualifying disposition the sale shares the Company stock acquired through the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR The following table provides information about option grants the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR INDIVIDUAL GRANTS ------------------------------------------------------------ NUMBER POTENTIAL REALIZABLE VALUE SECURITIES ASSUMED ANNUAL RATES UNDERLYING PERCENT TOTAL STOCK PRICE APPRECIATION FOR OPTIONS OPTIONS GRANTED EXERCISE OPTION TERM( ) GRANTED EMPLOYEES BASE EXPIRATION ----------------------------- NAME (#) FISCAL YEAR( ) PRICE ($/ )( ) DATE % ($) % ($) - ---- ---------- ---------------- --------------- ---------- ------------- ------------- Steven . Jobs............. -- % -- -- -- -- Fred . Anderson........... , % $ $ , , $ , , Timothy . Cook............ , % $ $ , , $ , , Mitchell Mandich........... , % $ $ , , $ , , Jonathan Rubinstein........ , % $ $ , $ , , - ------------------------ ( ) Based aggregate , , options granted all employees during fiscal year . Options typically vest four equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. ( ) All options were granted exercise price equal the fair market value based the closing market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market the date grant. ( ) Potential gains are net exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These amounts represent certain assumed rates appreciation only, based SEC rules, and not represent the Company\' estimate projection the price the Company\' stock the future. Actual gains, any, stock option exercises depend upon the actual future price Common Stock and the continued employment the option holders throughout the vesting period. Accordingly, the potential realizable values set forth this table may not achieved. OPTIONS EXERCISED AND YEAR-END OPTION HOLDINGS The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES NUMBER SECURITIES UNDERLYING UNEXERCISED VALUE UNEXERCISED - SHARES OPTIONS FISCAL YEAR-END THE-MONEY OPTIONS ACQUIRED VALUE (#) FISCAL YEAR-END ($)( ) EXERCISE REALIZED --------------------------- --------------------------- NAME (#) ($)( ) EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE - ---- ----------- --------- ----------- ------------- ----------- ------------- Steven . Jobs............... -- -- , , , , Fred . Anderson............. , , , , , , , , , Timothy Cook................. , , , , , , Mitchell Mandich............. , , , , , , , , , Jonathan Rubinstein.......... , , , , , , , , , - ------------------------ ( ) Market value underlying securities (based the fair market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market) the time exercise, minus the exercise price. ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. DIRECTOR COMPENSATION , the Company ended its practice paying cash retainers and fees directors, and approved the Apple Computer, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan (the "DIRECTOR PLAN"). The Director Plan was approved the shareholders April , and , shares have been reserved for issuance under the Director Plan. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board ("INITIAL OPTIONS"). the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock ("ANNUAL OPTIONS"). Initial Options vest and become exercisable equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. October , , there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION The current members the Board\' Compensation Committee are Messrs. Woolard and Chang, neither whom employee the Company. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee fiscal year . During fiscal year , executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. COMPANY STOCK PERFORMANCE The following graph shows five-year comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Composite Index (the " & ") and the & Computers (Hardware) Index (the "INDUSTRY INDEX"). The graph assumes $ was invested each the Common Stock, the & and the Industry Index September , . Data points the graph are annual. Note that historic stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN BASED UPON INITIAL INVESTMENT $ SEPTEMBER , WITH DIVIDENDS REINVESTED EDGAR REPRESENTATION DATA POINTS USED PRINTED GRAPHIC CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN BASED UPON INITIAL INVESTMENT $ SEPTEMBER , WITH DIVIDENDS REINVESTED Apple Computer Inc. & & Computers (Hardware) -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ SOURCE: GEORGESON SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION INC. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The following table sets forth certain information November , (the "TABLE DATE") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. SECURITY OWNERSHIP DIRECTORS, NOMINEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS SHARES COMMON STOCK NAME BENEFICIAL OWNER BENEFICIALLY OWNED( ) - ------------------------ ---------------------- Fred . Anderson....................................... , ( ) William . Campbell.................................... , ( ) Gareth . . Chang..................................... , ( ) Timothy . Cook........................................ Millard . Drexler..................................... Lawrence . Ellison.................................... , ( ) Steven . Jobs......................................... , ( ) Mitchell Mandich....................................... , ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein.................................... , ( ) Edgar . Woolard, ................................... , Jerome . York......................................... , ( ) All executive officers and directors group ( persons)......................................... , ( ) - ------------------------ ( ) All amounts listed this table represent less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell, Chang, Ellison, Jobs and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Constitutes , shares Common Stock which . Mandich has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held executive officers and directors and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ITEM . ARRANGEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The Company entered into employment agreement with . Anderson effective April , , pursuant which serves Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer the Company. Pursuant his agreement, . Anderson entitled annual base salary less than $ , . . Anderson\' employment terminated the Company without "Cause" any time during the five-year period following April , , will entitled receive lump sum severance payment equal the sum his annual base salary and target bonus, any. . Anderson\' agreement generally defines "Cause" include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his employment duties. February , . Cook joined the Company Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. Under the terms his employment, entitled annual base salary less than $ , . addition, . Cook received one-time hiring bonus the amount $ , and stock option grant with sell-back provision. The sell-back provision provides that during the five-day period starting the second anniversary his commencement employment, may elect sell all his remaining vested and unvested options and shares (obtained through the exercise such options) back the Company for the sum $ million less any profits . Cook has realized date through the exercise and sale such options (the "Sell-back Option"). During fiscal , . Cook realized net profits from the exercise and sale his options excess $ million. The Sell-back Option has future effect. . Cook\' employment terminated the Company without "Cause" during the first two years his employment, will entitled receive amount equal $ , minus the total base salary has received since the start his employment. CHANGE CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS--STOCK OPTIONS the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Stock Option Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Stock Option Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted Timothy . Cook, Nancy . Heinen, Mitchell Mandich and Sina Tamaddon provide that the event there "change control", defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control", their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason", those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control", shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. CHANGE CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS--RETENTION AGREEMENTS The Company was party retention agreements (the "RETENTION AGREEMENTS") with three executive officers (Messrs. Anderson, Rubinstein and Tevanian) providing for certain cash payments the event termination employment following change control the Company. March, , Messrs. Anderson, Rubinstein and Tevanian agreed waive any rights they may have under the Retention Agreements. exchange, all options previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Rubinstein and Tevanian were amended include "change control" provision similar the provision contained option grants Messrs. Cook, Mandich, Tamaddon and . Heinen. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS connection with the Company\' use aircraft transport its executive officers, the Company paid approximately $ , during fiscal year Wing & Prayer, company wholly-owned Lawrence . Ellison. REPORT THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE THE BOARD DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The Company\' executive compensation program administered the Compensation Committee the Board Directors (the "COMMITTEE"). The role the Committee, which comprised two outside non-employee directors, review and approve the base salaries, bonuses, stock options and other compensation the executive officers and management-level employees the Company. The Committee also administers the Company\' stock option plans and makes grants executive officers under the Executive Officer Stock Plan (the " Plan"). The Company\' executive compensation program utilizes Company performance, individual performance and increase stockholder value over time determinants executive pay levels. These principles are intended motivate executive officers improve the financial position the Company, hold executives accountable for the performance the organizations for which they are responsible, attract key executives into the service the Company and create value for the Company\' shareholders. The compensation for executive officers based two elements: Cash compensation and equity-based compensation. CASH COMPENSATION The Company reviews executive compensation surveys both the computer industry and general industry ensure that the total cash compensation provided executive officers and senior management remains competitive level enable the Company attract and retain management personnel with the talents and skills required meet the challenges highly competitive industry. The compensation executive officers, other than . Jobs, interim Chief Executive Officer, reviewed annually the Committee. BONUSES For fiscal year , the Compensation Committee approved the FY99 Vice Presidents and Directors Incentive Bonus Plan (the "BONUS PLAN"), under which cash bonuses for employees the level director and above were determined based specified revenue, unit shipments and profit targets for the Company. Because the Company did not achieve the metrics specified the Bonus Plan, payments were made thereunder. Executive officers and members the Board Directors are not eligible participate the Bonus Plan. EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION fiscal year , the Compensation Committee emphasized equity-based compensation, principally the form options, the cornerstone the Company\' executive compensation program. Equity awards are typically set the Compensation Committee based industry surveys, each officer\' individual performance and achievements, market factors and the recommendations management. fiscal year , executive officers were eligible receive grants stock options under the Plan. addition, executive officers were eligible participate the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan. During fiscal year , all the executive officers the Company received new option grants under the Plan. The Options granted under the Plan were exercise price equal the fair market value the Common Stock the date grant and generally vest unequal increments over five-year period after grant, subject the participant\' continued employment with the Company. All options granted under the Plan expire ten years from the date grant, unless shorter term provided the option agreement the participant\' employment with the Company ends before the end such ten-year period. COMPENSATION THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER . Jobs, the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer, received $ for the services performed for the Company fiscal year . SECTION ( ) The Company intends that options granted under the Company\' stock option plans deductible the Company under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code , amended. MEMBERS THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE Edgar . Woolard, . (Chairman) Gareth . Chang PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedule The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - current report form - dated September , , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press release issued the public September , , regarding the Company\' settlement shareholder derivative action. current report form - dated July , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press release issued the public July , , reporting the Company\' plan repurchase shares its common stock. current report form - dated December , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the amendment the Company\' fiscal year end. The Company\' fiscal calendar was amended move the fiscal year end from the last Friday September the last Saturday September. ( ) Exhibits EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION Agreement and Plan Merger Among Apple Computer, Inc., Blackbird Acquisition Corporation and NeXT Software, Inc., dated December , . - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . 99K -Laws the Company, amended through October , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). - Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - ------------------------ * Notes appear pages - . EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , .). Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. 97K Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer Inc. 97K Registration Rights Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 99K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through October , . ** Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K-10A ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan. ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. - ** Amendment Employment Agreement, dated May , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. - ------------------------ ( ) Notes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. 96K** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ** Employment Agreement effective December , , between Registrant and John . Douglas III. ** Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan, amended through March , . ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Non-Employee Director Stock Plan. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Fred . Anderson. - ------------------------ * Notes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION 97K** Resignation Agreement dated September , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Jon Rubenstein. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Avie Tevanian. 99K** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . ** Director Stock Option Plan. 99K** Executive Officer Stock Plan, amended through October , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. 97K Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. - ------------------------ ( ) Notes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement NOTES ----- 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . NOTES ----- - - , Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , and , respectively, the - , - , Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , - . 96K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . NOTES ----- Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 97K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 99K Filed exhibit this Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , . - ------------------------ ( ) Financial Statement Schedule See Item ( )( ) this Form - . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 21st day December . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON ----------------------------------------- Fred . Anderson EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: NAME TITLE DATE ---- ----- ---- interim Chief Executive / / STEVEN . JOBS Officer and Director ------------------------------------------- (Principal Executive December , STEVEN . JOBS Officer) Executive Vice President / / FRED . ANDERSON and Chief Financial ------------------------------------------- Officer (Principal December , FRED . ANDERSON Financial Officer) / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL ------------------------------------------- Director December , WILLIAM . CAMPBELL / / GARETH . CHANG ------------------------------------------- Director December , GARETH . CHANG / / MILLARD . DREXLER ------------------------------------------- Director December , MILLARD . DREXLER NAME TITLE DATE ---- ----- ---- / / LAWRENCE . ELLISON ------------------------------------------- Director December , LAWRENCE . ELLISON / / EDGAR . WOOLARD, . ------------------------------------------- Director December , EDGAR . WOOLARD, . / / JEROME . YORK ------------------------------------------- Director December , JEROME . YORK ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms five additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center. The Sacramento facility also houses customer call center. addition, the Company owns , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the United States, the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Other Factors" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Information regarding legal proceedings set forth Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note under the subheading "Litigation," which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 4. ': "SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company' fiscal year ended September , . PART ", 'item 5. ': "MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT' COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS The Company' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. December , , there were , shareholders record. The Company did not pay cash dividends either fiscal . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock represents the highest and lowest prices for the Company' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. FOURTH QUARTER THIRD QUARTER SECOND QUARTER FIRST QUARTER -------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- Fiscal price range per common share............................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share............................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ ", 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. FIVE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales.................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss)............................ $ $ $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic...................................... $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Diluted.................................... $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Cash dividends declared per common share..... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ $ Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic...................................... , , , , , Diluted.................................... , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , $ Total assets................................. $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt............................... $ $ $ $ $ Shareholders\' equity......................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net gains before taxes resulting from sales equity investment $ million and $ million were recognized and , respectively. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. fiscal , the Company acquired NeXT, resulting the allocation -process research and development charge $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS THIS SECTION AND OTHER PARTS THIS FORM - CONTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THE COMPANY\' ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE RESULTS DISCUSSED THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. FACTORS THAT MIGHT CAUSE SUCH DIFFERENCES INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED , THOSE DISCUSSED THE SUBSECTION ENTITLED "FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION" BELOW. THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION SHOULD READ CONJUNCTION WITH THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES THERETO INCLUDED ITEM THIS FORM - . ALL INFORMATION BASED THE COMPANY\' FISCAL CALENDAR. RESULTS OPERATIONS The following table sets forth annual results operations for fiscal years , , and ( millions, except unit shipment and per share amounts): CHANGE CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales...................................... $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Macintosh CPU unit sales ( thousands)...... , % , ( )% , Gross margin................................... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales...................... % % % Research and development....................... $ % $ ( )% $ Percentage net sales...................... % % % Selling, general and administrative............ $ % $ ( )% $ , Percentage net sales...................... % % % Special charges: -process research and development.......... $ -- $ $ Restructuring costs.......................... $ $ -- $ Termination license agreement............. $ -- $ -- $ Gains from sales investment................. $ $ $ -- Interest and other income, net................. $ % $ % $ Provision for income taxes..................... $ % $ $ -- Net income (loss).............................. $ % $ % $( , ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic........................................ $ % $ % $ ( ) Diluted...................................... $ % $ % $ ( ) The following table sets forth quarterly results operations for fiscal and ( millions, except unit shipment and per share amounts): YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , ----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Macintosh CPU unit sales ( thousands).......... Gross margin................ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Gross margin percentage... % % % % % % % % Operating expenses.......... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Special charges............. -- -- -- -- -- Operating margin............ Operating margin percentage.............. % % % % % % % % Gains from sales investment................ $ $ $ $ -- $ -- -- Interest and other income, net....................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Provision for income taxes..................... -- Net income.................. $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic..................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ OVERVIEW During , the Company experienced % rise Macintosh unit sales. This increase primarily attributable the success iMac, the Company\' moderately priced desktop Macintosh system designed for the education and consumer markets. The Company sold approximately million iMac units , increase approximately , units % over unit sales similar products . Growth unit sales was strong all the Company\' geographic operating segments, particularly Japan and Asia Pacific due strong acceptance iMac those regions and the general economic improvements experienced much Asia during the year. The Company also experienced improved profitability . Operating income before special charges rose % $ million $ million from $ million . Contributing the improvement operating margin was rise gross margin percentage net sales % compared % . The impact improved gross margins was partially offset planned increases recurring operating expenses during % total $ billion. Despite improved unit sales and improved profitability, the Company\' net sales rose only % $ billion. Growth net sales was negatively impacted during the year declines the average revenue per Macintosh system for both Power Macintosh and iMac systems and shift unit mix towards the lower priced iMac systems. Net sales were also negatively impacted during the fourth quarter due lower than planned deliveries PowerPC processors from Motorola. The primary focus the Company during fiscal remains achieving meaningful year-over-year growth both unit sales and net sales. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent upon the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet the dynamic conditions within the highly competitive market for personal computers. Potential risks and uncertainties that could affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition are discussed throughout this Item , including the discussion under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." NET SALES Net sales for geographic segments and Macintosh unit sales geographic segment and product follow (net sales millions and Macintosh unit sales thousands): CHANGE CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Americas net sales................................ $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Europe net sales.................................. $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Japan net sales................................... $ % $ ( )% $ , Asia Pacific net sales............................ $ % $ ( )% $ Americas Macintosh unit sales..................... , % , % , Europe Macintosh unit sales....................... % ( )% Japan Macintosh unit sales........................ % ( )% Asia Pacific Macintosh unit sales................. % ( )% ------ ------ ------ Total Macintosh unit sales...................... , % , ( )% , ====== ====== ====== Power Macintosh unit sales........................ , % , % PowerBook unit sales.............................. ( )% % iMac unit sales( )................................ , % , ( )% , iBook unit sales.................................. -- -- -- -- ------ ------ ------ Total Macintosh unit sales...................... , % , ( )% , ====== ====== ====== - ------------------------ ( ) Unit sales figures for iMac and include sales the Company\' previous consumer and education oriented Macintosh products. Net sales increased $ million % $ billion compared . The primary source this growth was overall % increase Macintosh unit sales, which was reflective strong unit growth all the Company\' geographic operating segments. Offsetting the rise unit shipments was decline the average revenue per Macintosh system, function total net sales generated hardware shipments and total Macintosh CPU unit sales, which fell % $ , from $ , . The decline during the average revenue per Macintosh system attributable lower pricing for both iMac and Power Macintosh products, which reflects the continuing overall industry trend towards lower pricing. The decline also attributable the shift the Company\' unit mix toward lower-priced consumer products such that iMac units and comparable products comprised % total Macintosh unit sales versus % . Net sales declined sequentially during the fourth quarter compared the third quarter $ million %, and declined $ million % compared the same period . Similarly, Macintosh unit sales declined % and % during the fourth quarter compared the third quarter and the same period , respectively. The primary causes for these declines both net sales and unit sales were lower than planned deliveries PowerPC processors from Motorola and production interruptions vendors supplying PowerBooks and iBooks experienced during the last week the fourth quarter result the earthquake Taiwan September , . The shortage processors reduced net sales approximately $ million during the fourth quarter . Net sales decreased $ billion, %, $ billion compared . The decline during net sales attributable several factors. The Company experienced $ million decrease net sales peripheral products during compared principally due the discontinuance the Company certain imaging and display products. The average revenue per Macintosh system fell % during compared from $ , $ , , reflecting the effect aggressive pricing the Company\' Power Macintosh systems introduced the first quarter fiscal , the decline net sales from the phase out certain peripheral products, the overall industry trend toward lower priced products, and the Company\' reentry during the fourth quarter into the lower-priced consumer market. Lastly, overall Macintosh CPU unit sales for declined approximately % from . International net sales were particularly affected these factors and the economic conditions existing Asia during . SEGMENT OPERATING PERFORMANCE The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' geographic segments include the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan, while the Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia except for Japan. Each geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data," which information hereby incorporated reference. AMERICAS Net sales the Americas segment increased % $ billion during compared , while Macintosh unit sales increased %. This followed % decline net sales the Americas between and . During , the Americas segment represented approximately % and % the Company\' total net sales and total Macintosh unit sales, respectively. The results experienced this segment reflect the overall trends experienced the Company growing Macintosh unit sales offset declines the average revenue per Macintosh system. EUROPE Net sales the Europe segment increased % $ billion during compared , while Macintosh unit sales increased %. This followed % decline net sales the Europe segment between and . Like the Americas segment, Europe\' results compared are indicative strong growth Macintosh unit sales offset declines the average revenue per Macintosh system. JAPAN AND ASIA PACIFIC Macintosh unit sales and net sales Asia, particularly Japan, recovered during from the declines experienced . Net sales the Japan segment increased % $ million total $ million compared . Macintosh unit sales Japan increased % during compared while Macintosh unit sales the Asia Pacific segment increased %. The increases net sales and Macintosh unit sales both Japan and Asia Pacific are the result strong iMac sales experienced these operating segments, strong growth Japanese consumer sales, and the general economic recovery experienced the region. BACKLOG the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions because overordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Further information regarding the Company\' backlog may found below under the subheading "Product Introductions and Transitions" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. GROSS MARGIN Gross margin increased percentage net sales during % compared % . This increase was primarily attributable declines the cost various components the Company\' products, improvements manufacturing efficiencies brought about selective outsourcing final assembly certain the Company\' products, improved design products leading lower manufacturing and warranty costs, and relatively stable pricing the Company\' products over the last six months . During , the Company was also able fully realize the benefits actions taken primarily and that led improved inventory management and more efficient distribution model for its products. These improvements are discussed below. Gross margin increased percentage net sales during % compared % . This increase was primarily the result shift revenue mix toward the Company\' higher margin Power Macintosh systems and newer PowerBook systems, the low volume lower margin consumer products shipped during the first three quarters , and the declining cost various components the Company\' products, particularly those sourced from Asia. Improvements the Company\' inventory management also contributed the increase gross margins. During , the Company simplified its product line, moving from approximately separate individual products three main product families. Further, the Company attempted use many industry standard parts its newer products possible, expanded the use supplier hubs manufacturing sites, and outsourced the manufacture printed circuit boards and some systems assembly. These changes have allowed the Company more accurately forecast demand, reduce inventory carrying levels and related costs, lessen the financial exposure resulting from inventory obsolescence and excess inventory levels, and reduce the component cost obtaining certain standardized parts. The Company also made changes its distribution model during and that contributed the increase gross margins . The Company significantly reduced the number locations where stages finished goods, generally holding inventory regional basis rather than each country. Also, the Company significantly reduced the number its distributors, authorized resellers, and national retail channel partners, particularly the United States. These changes allowed the Company reduce inventory and related financial exposures and reduced the inventory and related financial exposure associated with inventory held the Company\' distribution channels. The Company has also revised its distribution channel policies decreasing the price protection and stock return privileges its distributors and resellers. The Company anticipates that lower priced consumer products become larger share net sales and the overall industry trend toward lower-priced products continues, gross margins will decline during fiscal . The foregoing statement forward-looking. The Company\' actual results could differ because several factors, including those set forth the following paragraph and below the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." There can assurance targeted gross margin levels will achieved current margins existing individual products will maintained. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\' product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage quality problems and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account anticipated changes foreign currency exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations exchange rates. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company recognizes focused investments research and development are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. Expenditures research and development increased % $ million $ million compared . This followed $ million % decline compared . The overall decline spending research and development over the last two years principally due restructuring actions taken , , and intended focus the Company\' research and development efforts those projects perceived critical the Company\' future success. These restructuring actions led significant reductions research and development related headcount and the cancellation many research and development projects. SELLING, GENERAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE Selling, general, and administrative expenditures increased % $ million compared and increased % net sales from % . These increases are primarily the result increased spending marketing and promotional activities throughout and % increase combined sales, marketing, and general and administrative headcount from the end the end . Selling, general, and administrative expenditures declined $ million % compared and declined % net sales from % net sales . These decreases were primarily the result restructuring actions taken , , and , which resulted reductions headcount, closing facilities, and write-down and disposal operating assets during , , and . Additionally, changes during the Company\' distribution channel policies and business model, including contraction and focus the Company\' product line and simplification the Company\' internal and external distribution channels, led reduction selling expenses during . SPECIAL CHARGES AND RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS the second quarter , the Company announced and began implement restructuring plan designed reduce costs and return the Company profitability. The restructuring plan was necessitated decreased demand for the Company\' products and the Company\' adoption new strategic direction. These actions resulted charge during $ million. During , the Company announced and began implement supplemental restructuring actions meet the foregoing objectives the plan. The Company recognized $ million charge during for the estimated incremental costs those actions. All material restructuring actions contemplated under the plan were essentially complete the end fiscal . The combined and restructuring actions consisted terminating approximately , full-time employees; canceling vacating certain facility leases result those employee terminations; writing down certain land, buildings, and equipment sold result downsizing operations and outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling contracts for projects and technologies that were not critical the Company\' core business strategy. The restructuring actions under the plan resulted cash expenditures $ million and noncash asset write-downs $ million from the second quarter through September , . the combined and restructuring charges $ million, approximately $ million was determined excess during the fourth quarter . The remaining balance $ million September , , accrued restructuring costs for the and restructuring actions comprised payments over the next two years leases and contracts that had been terminated prior fiscal . The Company expects the remaining accrual will result cash expenditures $ million over the next two years. RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the fourth quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting charge operations $ million. The net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the fourth quarter reflects the $ million excess reserves related the and restructuring actions. The total cost these actions $ million comprised $ million for contract cancellation charges associated with the closure the Company\' outsourced data center and $ million for contract cancellation charges related supply and development agreements previously discontinued. The Company expects these actions result cash expenditures $ million over the next year. During the second quarter , the Company took certain actions improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. These restructuring actions resulted the Company recognizing charge operations approximately $ million during the second quarter , which was comprised $ million for severance benefits paid employees involuntarily terminated, $ million for the write-down operating assets disposed , and $ million for payments canceled contracts. These actions resulted the termination approximately employees and are substantially complete September , . -PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT May , the Company acquired certain technology that was under development and had alternative future use. The acquisition resulted the recognition $ million purchased -process research and development, which was charged operations upon acquisition. February , the Company acquired all the outstanding shares NeXT Software, Inc. (NeXT). NeXT had developed, marketed, and supported software enabling customers implement business applications the Internet World Wide Web, intranets and enterprise-wide client server networks. the total purchase price $ million, $ million was allocated purchased -process research and development and $ million was allocated goodwill and other intangible assets. The purchased -process research and development was charged operations upon acquisition, and the goodwill and other intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over two three years. TERMINATION LICENSE AGREEMENT August , the Company agreed acquire certain assets Power Computing Corporation (PCC), licensed distributor the Mac operating system, including PCC\' customer database and its license distribute the Mac . The agreement with PCC also included release claims between the parties. January , , the Company completed its acquisition certain assets from PCC. The total purchase price was approximately $ million, which $ million was expensed the fourth quarter "termination license agreement" and $ million was recorded goodwill the second quarter . The goodwill being amortized over three years. INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Interest and other income and expense (net) increased $ million % $ million during compared . This increase attributable two primary factors. First, the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased $ million % during resulting increase interest income during $ million. Second, interest expense declined $ million during , primarily result the conversion approximately $ million the Company\' convertible subordinated notes common stock during the third quarter . During , the Company experienced $ million increase interest income net interest expense, the result higher cash and investment balances and lower average short-term borrowings, offset decreased foreign exchange gains and increased other expense. GAINS FROM SALES INVESTMENT September , , the Company owned % the outstanding stock ARM Holdings plc (ARM), privately held company the United Kingdom involved the design high performance microprocessors and related technology. The Company had accounted for this investment using the equity method through September , . April , , ARM completed initial public offering its stock the London Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ National Market. The Company sold % its shares the offering for gain before foreign taxes approximately $ million, which was recognized other income. Foreign tax recognized this gain was approximately $ million. the time equity method investee sells existing newly issued common stock unrelated parties excess its book value, the equity method requires the net book value the investment adjusted reflect the investor\' share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from the sale. the Company\' policy record adjustment reflecting its share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from such sale gain loss other income. Consequently, the Company also recognized the third quarter other income approximately $ million reflect its remaining % ownership interest the increased net book value ARM following its initial public offering. September , , the carrying value the Company\' investment ARM carried other assets the consolidated balance sheet was approximately $ million. October , , the Company sold million shares (split adjusted) ARM stock. result this sale, the Company\' ownership interest ARM fell %. Consequently, beginning the first quarter fiscal , the Company ceased accounting for its remaining investment ARM using the equity method and categorized its remaining shares available-for-sale requiring the shares carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses net taxes reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. During fiscal , the Company sold approximately million shares (split adjusted) ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. September , , the Company\' remaining million shares ARM stock are valued $ million. The fair value the Company\' investment ARM reflected other assets September , , with offsetting amount net $ million related deferred income taxes recognized accumulated other comprehensive income. PROVISION (BENEFIT) FOR INCOME TAXES September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. substantial portion this asset realizable based the ability offset existing deferred tax liabilities. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and tax benefits certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. The Company\' effective tax rate for fiscal was % compared the higher statutory rate due primarily the reversal portion the previously established valuation allowance and certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes were provided. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the United States Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although most the issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. The Company anticipates its effective tax rate for fiscal will approximately %. The foregoing statement forward-looking. The Company\' actual results could differ because several factors, including those set forth below the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Additionally, the actual future tax rate will significantly impacted the amount and jurisdiction which the Company\' foreign profits are earned. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): -------- -------- -------- Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments.......... $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net.................................... $ $ $ , Inventory................................................... $ $ $ Working capital............................................. $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable( )........................ Days supply inventory( ).............................. Operating cash flow......................................... $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) Based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, increase $ million % over the same balances the end fiscal . During fiscal , the Company\' primary source cash was $ million cash flows from operating activities. Cash generated operations was primarily from net income, declines accounts receivables and inventory resulting from improved asset management, and increase accounts payable. The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged collateral support letters credit. addition the net purchase short-term investments $ billion, net cash used investing activities included $ million for the purchase investments Samsung and Akamai discussed below and $ million for the purchase fixed assets. These uses cash were partially offset proceeds from the sale ARM stock $ million and proceeds from the sale equipment $ million. The Company expects the level capital expenditures will increase moderately from . July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. September , , the Company had repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. November , , the Company entered into $ million revolving credit agreement with Bank America. Loans under the agreement pay interest LIBOR plus %, and the Company required pay commitment fee % the unused portion the credit facility. advances have been made against this credit facility. This revolving credit agreement intended provide the Company with additional source liquidity and provide additional support the Company\' capital position the event short-term liquidity disturbances worldwide financial markets associated with the Year crossover. The Company believes its balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient meet its cash requirements over the next twelve months, including any cash utilized its stock repurchase plan. However, given the Company\' current non-investment grade debt ratings, the Company should need obtain short-term borrowings, there can assurance such borrowings could obtained favorable rates. The inability obtain such borrowings favorable rates could materially adversely affect the Company\' results operations, financial condition, and liquidity. OTHER LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS discussed above, the Company has categorized its shares ARM available-for-sale requiring the shares carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses net taxes reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. September , , the Company held million shares ARM stock valued $ million. During the first quarter fiscal through December , , the Company sold additional million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and gains before taxes approximately $ million. December , , the Company holds million shares ARM stock valued approximately $ million. During the fourth quarter , the Company invested $ million Samsung Electronics ., Ltd (Samsung) assist the further expansion Samsung\' TFT-LCD flat-panel display production capacity. The investment, the form three year unsecured bonds, convertible into approximately , shares Samsung common stock beginning June . The bonds carry annual coupon rate % and pay total yield maturity % redeemed their maturity. June , the Company invested $ million Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), global Internet content delivery service. The investment was the form convertible preferred stock that converted into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits) the time Akamai\' initial public offering October . The Company restricted from selling more than % its shares within one year after the date the closing public offering Akamai\' stock. Beginning the first quarter fiscal , the Company has categorized its shares Akamai available-for-sale requiring they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses net taxes reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. December , , the fair value the Company\' investment Akamai was approximately $ billion. Because Akamai newly public company and its stock price has experienced significant volatility, the fair value the Company\' investment Akamai may fluctuate significantly the future. YEAR COMPLIANCE THE INFORMATION PRESENTED BELOW RELATED YEAR (Y2K) COMPLIANCE CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT ARE SUBJECT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THE COMPANY\' ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THOSE DISCUSSED BELOW AND ELSEWHERE THIS FORM - REGARDING Y2K COMPLIANCE. YEAR The Year (Y2K) issue the result certain computer hardware, operating system software and software application programs having been developed using two digits rather than four define year. For example, the clock circuit the hardware may incapable holding date beyond the year ; some operating systems may recognize date using " " the year rather than and certain applications may have limited date processing capabilities. These problems could result the failure major systems miscalculations, which could have material impact companies through business interruption shutdown, financial loss, damage reputation, and legal liability third parties. Y2K PLAN The Company\' Information Systems and Technology department ( & ) began addressing the Y2K issue part its Next Generation strategy, which addressed the need for ongoing enhancement and replacement the Company\' various disparate legacy information technology ( ) Systems. , the Company established Year Executive Steering Committee (Steering Committee) comprised senior executives the Company and the Company\' Year Project Management Office (PMO). The PMO reports the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Steering Committee, and the Audit and Finance Committee the Board Directors. The PMO developed and manages the Company\' worldwide Y2K strategic plan (Y2K Plan) address the potential impact Y2K the Company\' operations and business processes. particular, the Y2K Plan addresses four principal areas that may impacted the Y2K issue: Apple Branded Products; Third Party Relationships; Non- Business Systems; and Systems. With respect the Systems and Non- Business Systems, the Y2K Plan consists four separate but overlapping phases: Phase --Inventory and Risk Assessment; Phase --Remediation Cost Estimation; Phase III--Remediation; and Phase --Remediation Testing. addition, the Company has ongoing Y2K Awareness Program designed keep employees informed about Y2K issues. The discussion below reflects management\' estimate the current status the four principal areas the Company\' Y2K Plan. Regardless the current status, all areas the Y2K Plan remain under review and subject modification deemed necessary throughout the remainder calendar through the date rollover and into January . APPLE BRANDED PRODUCTS The Company designs and manufactures personal computers, related peripherals, operating system software and application software, including Macintosh personal computers and the Mac , which are marketed under the "Apple" brand (collectively "Apple Branded Products"). The Company tested certain Apple Branded Products determine Y2K compliance, although such testing did not include third party products bundled with Apple Branded Products and certain Apple Branded Products longer distributed and supported the Company. For purposes this discussion, Y2K compliant means product will not produce errors processing date data connection with the year change from December , , January , , when used with accurate date data accordance with its documentation, provided all other products (including other software, firmware and hardware) used with properly exchange date data with . Y2K compliant product will recognize the Year leap year. Information about testing and Y2K compliance Apple Branded Products available the Apple corporate web site under the heading "Year Readiness Disclosure", www apple com about year/. Such information, which updated ongoing basis, not considered part this annual report. Because the Company does not control the design non-Apple Branded Products third party products that are bundled with Apple Branded Products, cannot assure such products are Y2K compliant. Some Apple Branded Products installed customer sites may require upgrades other remediation. While the Company believes its customers are responsible for the Y2K readiness their and business environments, the Company has taken steps assist customers achieving their readiness goals. Apple issuing software updates ( additional charge) for most, but not all, known issues certain Apple Branded Products. THIRD PARTY RELATIONSHIPS The Company\' business operations are heavily dependent third party corporate service vendors, materials suppliers, outsourced operations partners, distributors and others. The Company working with key external parties identify and attempt mitigate the potential risks Y2K. The failure external parties resolve their own Y2K issues timely manner could result material financial risk the Company. part its Y2K Plan and establish the state readiness certain third parties, the Company actively communicating ongoing basis with certain third parties whose lack Y2K compliance would present high degree risk the Company. Based information obtained from various sources, the Company believes reasonably possible there will interruptions around the world critical services such air traffic control, airfreight transportation, customs clearance, telecommunications, and power utilities early calendar year that could result shipping delays raw material and finished goods. The Company also believes reasonably possible that worldwide financial markets could exhibit unusual short-term volatility and liquidity disturbances the end calendar and the beginning calendar . Such events could result material adverse effects the Company\' results operations and financial position. See further discussion regarding this issue below under the heading "Contingency Plans." The Company has substantially completed its review certain third parties the end the fourth quarter fiscal . Although numerous third parties have advised the Company they are addressing their Y2K issues, the readiness third parties overall varies widely. Because the Company\' Y2K compliance dependent the timely Y2K compliance third parties, there can assurances the Company\' efforts alone will resolve all Y2K issues. The Company continues communicate with and monitor the compliance efforts key third parties. The Company will continue these efforts with key third parties through the date rollover and into January . SYSTEMS AND NON- BUSINESS SYSTEMS Phase --Inventory and Risk Assessment: This Phase requires inventory and assessment the Non- Business Systems used the Company, including systems with embedded technology, building access systems, and health and safety systems. This Phase also includes inventory and assessment Systems used the Company, including large & systems, desktop hardware and software, and network hardware and software. Each system evaluated and the business risk quantified being High, Medium Low Risk the Company\' business. Systems that are High Risk are those, which uncorrected, would cause interruption complete failure conduct the Company\' business. Medium Risks are those that would negatively impact the business but complete cessation could avoided with some inconvenience. Low Risks are those where the risk business interruption cessation are remote. The Company intends that High and Medium Risk items will remediated replaced, and Low Risk items will likely not addressed prior the Year . The status the Company\' remediation efforts discussed below. The Company had substantially completed the Inventory and Risk Assessment Phase for both Systems and Non- Systems the end the third quarter fiscal . However, the Company has and will continue review information developed the result its Y2K Plan, which could result additional items being added its Y2K inventory. Phase --Remediation Cost Estimation: This Phase involves the analysis each High and Medium Risk determine how such risks may remediated and the cost such remediation. The Company has substantially completed this Phase for both and Non- Business Systems. Phase III--Remediation: This Phase includes the replacement correction the High and Medium Risk Non- Business Systems and Systems. The Company substantially completed this Phase for both and Non- Business Systems during the fourth quarter fiscal . Phase --Remediation Testing: This Phase includes the future date testing the remediation efforts made Phase III confirm that the changes made bring the affected systems into compliance, new problems have arisen result the remediation, and new systems that replaced noncompliant systems are Y2K compliant. The Company substantially completed this Phase for both and Non- Business Systems during the first quarter fiscal . COSTS ADDRESS Y2K The costs the Y2K program are primarily costs associated with the utilization existing internal resources and incremental external spending. The Company\' current estimate total incremental external spending over the life its Y2K plan address those risks identified High Medium approximately $ million which approximately $ million had been spent September , . the Company\' Y2K Plan continues, the actual future incremental spending may prove higher. Also, this estimate does not include the costs that could incurred the Company one more its significant third party vendors fails achieve Y2K compliance. The Company not separately identifying and including these estimates the Y2K costs incurred that are the result utilization the Company\' existing internal resources. CONTINGENCY PLANS Under the guidance and management the PMO, the Company the final stages developing, implementing, and testing Y2K contingency plans for critical business operations. The Company\' contingency plans, which are based part the assessment the magnitude and probability potential risks, primarily focus proactive steps prevent Y2K failures from occurring, they should occur, detect them quickly, minimize their impact and expedite their remediation. The Y2K contingency plans will supplement existing disaster recovery and business continuity plans. part its contingency plans, the Company has developed global Incident Management Team (IMT) identify, escalate, and mitigate the potential impact various Y2K failures. The IMT comprised personnel from the PMO well key areas the Company\' operations. The IMT will begin monitor the date rollover commencing with Sydney, Australia and will "follow the sun" through the time change the Pacific Standard Time zone. The Company\' contingency planning efforts were approximately % complete the end the fourth quarter fiscal and are expected substantially completed during the first quarter fiscal . The Company believes reasonably possible there will interruptions air traffic control, airfreight transportation, customs clearance, telecommunications, and power utilities early calendar year that could result shipping delays raw material and finished goods and other business interruptions. The Company has developed and implemented contingency plans mitigate the effects short-term interruption such services. However, the interruption these services last for extended period time, alternative Y2K compliant services are not readily available reasonable cost, there could material adverse effects the Company\' results operations and financial position. The Company also believes reasonably possible worldwide financial markets could exhibit unusual short-term volatility and liquidity disturbances the end calendar and the beginning calendar . The Company has developed and implemented contingency plans mitigate some the potential short-term effects such disturbances. However, these disturbances the financial markets last for extended period time, alternative mitigating actions are not readily available reasonable cost, there could material adverse effects the Company\' results operations and financial position. RISK FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH Y2K ISSUES The Company has substantially completed its initial assessment reasonably likely worst case scenarios Non- Business Systems and Systems failures and related consequences. Based current information, the Company believes the most likely worst case scenario will experience minor malfunctions and failures its Systems and Non- Business Systems the beginning the Year not previously detected during the Company\' inventory and risk assessment and remediation activities. The Company currently believes these malfunctions and failures will not have material impact its results operations financial condition. However, there can assurance the Y2K remediation the Company third parties will properly and timely completed, and the failure could have material adverse effect the Company, its business, its results operations, and its financial condition. particular, the Company believes lack Y2K readiness its significant third party vendors could cause material interruptions the Company\' operations. The identification additional issues with respect the Y2K compliance key third parties could have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations. addition, important factors that could cause results differ materially include, but are not limited , the ability the Company successfully identify systems and vendors that have Y2K issue, the nature and amount remediation effort required fix the affected systems, the adequacy such remediation efforts, the production-related contingency plans competitors with the Company\' third party suppliers, and the costs and availability labor and resources successfully address the Y2K issues and execute any required contingency plans. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION COMPETITION The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected industry wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including consumer, education and publishing. Additionally, several the Company\' competitors have introduced announced plans introduce products that mimic many the unique design and technical features the Company\' products. Many the Company\' competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected overall demand for personal computers and general customer preferences for one platform over another one set product features over another. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing Microsoft Windows operating systems. The Company believes the innovative industrial design its products, the unique set features its products currently provide, the perceived advantages the Mac over Windows, and the general reluctance the Macintosh installed base incur the costs switching platforms, have been driving forces behind sales the Company\' personal computer hardware recent years. The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result the recent innovations the Windows platform. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS AND TRANSITIONS Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products order remain competitive. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. The Company plans continue introduce upgrades the current Mac , Mac , and later introduce new operating system, Mac Client, which expected offer advanced functionality based Apple and NeXT software technologies. uncertain whether Mac will gain developer support and market acceptance. Inability successfully develop and make timely delivery substantially backward-compatible Mac planned enhancements the current Mac , gain developer support and market acceptance for those operating systems, may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. INVENTORY AND SUPPLY The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand and accrues for any cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been canceled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer industry, assurance can given the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may again have, material effect the Company\' financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce excess insufficient inventories particular products. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Many the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they also reduce the Company\' direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company remains least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service. Accordingly, the event product defects warranty liability, the Company may remain primarily liable. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components (including without limitation DRAM and TFT-LCD flat-panel displays), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry wide availability and pricing pressures. the supply key component were delayed constrained, the Company\' business and financial performance could adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, , possible, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for other semiconductor products with other industries that have experienced increased demand for such products, due either increased consumer demand increased use semiconductors their products (such the cellular phone and automotive industries). Finally, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry (including certain microprocessors and ASICs). Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\' requirements. Such product supply constraints and corresponding increased costs could decrease the Company\' net sales and adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Motorola, the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, and other developers and producers microprocessors used personal computers using the Windows operating systems. Further discussion relating availability and supply components and product may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Raw Materials," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product," which information hereby incorporated reference. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers, and directly education institutions for resale (collectively referred "resellers"). addition, the Company also sells many its products most its major markets directly end users through its -line store. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins. Most such resellers also distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakened, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\' products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\' products causes resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution," which information hereby incorporated reference. GLOBAL MARKET RISKS large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. Countries the Asia Pacific region, including Japan, have recently experienced weaknesses their currency, banking and equity markets. These weaknesses have adversely affected and may continue adversely affect consumer demand for the Company\' products, the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales, the availability and cost product components the Company, and consequently the Company\' results operations. Further information related the Company\' global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk" and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. SUPPORT FROM THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS Decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' financial losses prior years and declining demand for the Company\' products, well the Company\' decision end its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. Moreover, the Company\' current plan introduce Mac could cause software developers stop developing software for the current Mac . addition, there can assurance software developers will decide develop software for the new operating system timely basis all. August , the Company and Microsoft entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. addition, for period five years from August , subject certain limitations related the number Macintosh computers sold the Company, Microsoft will make future versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac . The Company will bundle the Internet Explorer product with Mac system software releases and make that product the default Internet browser for such releases. While the Company believes its relationship with Microsoft has been and will continue beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Microsoft relationship for limited term and does not cover many the areas which the Company competes with Microsoft, including the Windows platform. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac not covered the relationship following expiration the agreements may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system. addition, the Microsoft relationship may have adverse effect , among other things, the Company\' relationship with other partners. There can assurance the benefits the Company the Microsoft relationship will not offset the disadvantages. EURO CONVERSION January , , eleven the fifteen member countries the European Union adopted the Euro their common legal currency and established fixed conversion rates between their existing sovereign currencies and the Euro. The Euro now traded currency exchanges and available for non-cash transactions. three year transition period began during which transactions can made the old currencies. The Company has taken steps evaluate internal system capabilities, review the ability financial institution vendors support Euro transactions, and examine current marketing and pricing policies and strategies light the Euro conversion. The cost this effort not expected have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations financial condition. There can assurance, however, all issues related the Euro conversion have been identified and that any additional issues would not have material effect the Company\' results operations financial condition. The conversion the Euro may have competitive implications the Company\' pricing and marketing strategies, the impact which are not known this time. Additionally, the Company risk the extent its principal European suppliers and customers are unable deal effectively with the impact the Euro conversion. OTHER FACTORS The potential risks associated with the Company\' Y2K Plan are discussed above under the heading "Year Compliance." The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including certain major vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and leave responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, assurance can given such laws, any future laws enacted for the protection the environment, will not have material adverse effect the Company. Because the foregoing factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. addition, the Company\' participation highly dynamic industry often results significant volatility the Company\' common stock price. ', 'item 7a. ': "DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE AND FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap, option and floor positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company' risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures intended hedge, there can assurance the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company' operating results and financial position. INTEREST RATE RISK While the Company exposed with respect interest rate fluctuations many the world' leading industrialized countries, the Company' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company' exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company' investments and long-term debt obligations and related derivative financial instruments. The Company places its investments with high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company' general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. September , , substantially all the Company' investments have maturities less than months. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the Notes) certain qualified parties private placement. The Notes were sold % par. The Notes paid interest semiannually and matured, not converted earlier, June , . The Notes were convertible their holders any time after September , , conversion price $ per share subject adjustments defined the Note agreement. Notes had been converted September , . The Notes were redeemable the Company % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the month period beginning June , , and % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the month period beginning June , . addition, the Company incurred approximately $ million costs associated with the issuance the Notes. These costs were accounted for deduction from the face amount the Notes and were being amortized over the life the Notes. April , , the Company called for redemption the Notes. Not including approximately $ million unamortized debt issuance costs, debentures aggregate principal amount outstanding totaled approximately $ million March , . During the third quarter , debenture holders chose convert virtually all the outstanding debentures common stock rate $ per share resulting the issuance approximately million shares the Company' common stock. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . The following table presents the principal ( notional) amounts and related weighted-average interest rates for the Company' investment portfolio and its long-term debt obligations. The long-term debt comprised $ million unsecured notes described above, which mature February . The Company' . corporate securities include commercial paper, loan participations, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participation, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company' cash equivalents and short-term investments have generally been held until maturity. Gross unrealized gains and losses were negligible September , and . millions, except weighted-average interest rates SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , -------------------- -------------------- WEIGHTED- WEIGHTED- AVERAGE AVERAGE CARRYING INTEREST CARRYING INTEREST AMOUNT RATE AMOUNT RATE -------- --------- -------- --------- Assets: Cash equivalents: . Treasury and Agency securities................ $ % $ % . corporate securities.......................... % % Foreign securities................................. % % ------ ------ Total cash equivalents........................... , % , % ------ ------ Short-term investments: . Treasury and Agency securities................ $ % $ . corporate securities.......................... % % Foreign securities................................. % % ------ ------ Total short-term investments..................... , % % ------ ------ Total investment securities.......................... $ , % $ , % ====== ====== Debt: Fixed rate........................................... $ % $ % ====== ====== Purchased floors are options limiting the Company' exposure falling interest rates its cash equivalents and short-term investments locking minimum interest rate. The Company receives payment when interest rates fall below predetermined level. purchased floor generally qualifies for hedge accounting treatment and reported the balance sheet its premium cost, which amortized over the life the floor. The purchased floors are generally designated and effective hedges against interest rate risk the Company' securities classified available-for-sale and are carried fair value other current liabilities with the unrealized gains and losses recorded component accumulated other comprehensive income. Purchased floors outstanding September , , provided the Company with the option weighted-average interest rate % the notional amount $ million. There were purchased floors outstanding September , . Gains and losses are recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , . During the last two years, the Company has entered into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company does not hold transact such financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. The interest rate swaps qualifying accounting hedges generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively convert the Company' fixed-rate year debt floating-rate debt and convert the floating rate investments fixed rate. The maturity date for $ million the asset swaps October with the remaining debt and asset swaps maturing February and September . September , and , interest rate debt swaps had weighted-average receive rate %. The weighted-average pay rate the debt swaps was % and % September , and , respectively. September , , interest rate asset swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and weighted-average pay rate %. The unrealized gains and losses these swaps are deferred and recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million September , , while deferred gains such contracts totaled $ million September , . FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company' net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal . dollar value terms the related currency' historically high correlation with the . dollar. Foreign exchange forward contracts are carried fair value other current liabilities. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and marked market through earnings. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company' products and purchases raw material, sub-assemblies, and assembled finished goods currencies other than the functional currency. majority these transactions are made through the Company' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge the currency exchange risks associated with these probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase these foreign exchange option contracts. The term the Company' foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions, probable but not firmly committed transactions, partially finance the foreign risk management program, currently does not extend beyond six months. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are generally recorded income shareholders' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses accounting hedges realized before the settlement date the related hedged transaction are also generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not accounted for hedges are recorded income component interest and other income (expense), net. Sold interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not qualify accounting hedges. Premiums associated with sold foreign exchange option contracts are marked market through earnings. The following table provides information about the Company' foreign currency derivative financial instruments outstanding September , and . The information provided . dollar amounts, presented the Company' consolidated financial statements. For foreign currency exchange contracts, the table presents the notional amount ( contract exchange rates) and the weighted-average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. The combined increase Yen denominated forward contracts and options the result increasing net sales Japan and the substantial appreciation the Yen during . Generally, all instruments mature within months. Miscellaneous other currencies consist primarily the Canadian and Australian dollars. --------------------------- --------------------------- WEIGHTED-AVERAGE WEIGHTED-AVERAGE NOTIONAL CONTRACT RATE NOTIONAL CONTRACT RATE AMOUNT STRIKE PRICE AMOUNT STRIKE PRICE -------- ---------------- -------- ---------------- millions, except average contract rates and strike prices Foreign currency spot forward contracts: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro German Marks......................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total currency spot forward contracts....... $ $ ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ ( ) $ ( ) ====== ====== Foreign currency purchased call options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro German Marks......................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total purchased call options............ $ $ ------ ------ Foreign currency purchased put options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro German Marks......................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total purchased put options............. $ , $ , ------ ------ Total foreign currency purchased options.... $ , $ , ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ $ ====== ====== Foreign currency sold call options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro German Marks......................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total sold call options................. ------ ------ Foreign currency sold put options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ Euro German Marks......................... $ $ Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total sold put options.................. ------ ------ Total foreign currency sold options......... $ $ ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ ( ) $ ( ) ====== ====== ", 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE - ------------------------------------------ -------- Financial Statements: Report KPMG LLP, Independent Auditors.................. Consolidated Balance Sheets September , , and September , ...................................... Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , .......................... Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , ............. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , .......................... Notes Consolidated Financial Statements................ Financial Statement Schedule: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule --Valuation and qualifying accounts.......... All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . connection with our audits the consolidated financial statements, have also audited the accompanying financial statement schedule. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic consolidated financial statements taken whole, presents fairly, all material respects, the information set forth therein. / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California October , CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS) SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ----------------- ----------------- ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents................................. $ , $ , Short-term investments.................................... , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively............................................ Inventories............................................... Deferred tax assets....................................... Other current assets...................................... ------ ------ Total current assets.................................... , , Property, plant, and equipment, net....................... Other assets.............................................. ------ ------ Total assets............................................ $ , $ , ====== ====== LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable.......................................... $ $ Accrued expenses.......................................... ------ ------ Total current liabilities............................... , , Long-term debt.............................................. Deferred tax liabilities.................................... ------ ------ Total liabilities....................................... , , ====== ====== Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock, par value; , shares authorized, issued and outstanding............................................. Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively............................... , Retained earnings......................................... , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)............. ( ) ------ ------ Total shareholders\' equity.............................. , , ------ ------ Total liabilities and shareholders\' equity.............. $ , $ , ====== ====== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ------------------------------------------- -------- -------- --------- Net sales................................................... $ , $ , $ , Cost sales............................................... , , , -------- -------- --------- Gross margin................................................ , , , -------- -------- --------- Operating expenses: Research and development.................................. Selling, general, and administrative...................... , Special charges: -process research and development..................... -- Restructuring costs..................................... -- Termination license agreement........................ -- -- -------- -------- --------- Total operating expenses.............................. , , , -------- -------- --------- Operating income (loss)..................................... ( , ) Gains from sales investment.............................. -- Interest and other income, net.............................. -------- -------- --------- Total interest and other income, net........................ -------- -------- --------- Income (loss) before provision for income taxes............. ( , ) Provision for income taxes.................................. -- -------- -------- --------- Net income (loss)........................................... $ $ $ ( , ) ======== ======== ========= Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic..................................................... $ $ $ ( ) Diluted................................................... $ $ $ ( ) Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic..................................................... , , , Diluted................................................... , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS) PREFERRED STOCK COMMON STOCK ACCUMULATED OTHER TOTAL ------------------------- ------------------------- RETAINED COMPREHENSIVE SHAREHOLDERS\' SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT EARNINGS INCOME (LOSS) EQUITY -------------- -------- -------------- -------- -------- ------------------ ------------- ( THOUSANDS) ( THOUSANDS) Balances September , ................ -- $ -- , $ $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income (loss): Net loss.............. -- -- -- -- ( , ) -- ( , ) Foreign currency translation......... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------- Total comprehensive income (loss)..... ( , ) Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans and connection with the acquisition NeXT... -- -- , -- -- Series non-voting convertible preferred stock issued.......... -- -- -- -- ------ ---- ------- ------ ------- ----- ------- Balances September , ................ , ( ) , Components comprehensive income (loss): Net income............ -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation......... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------- Total comprehensive income (loss)..... Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans........ -- -- , -- -- Common stock issued connection with the acquisition certain assets PCC......... -- -- , -- -- Tax benefit related disqualifying dispositions stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- ------ ---- ------- ------ ------- ----- ------- Balances September , ................ , ( ) , Components comprehensive income (loss): Net income............ -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation......... -- -- -- -- -- Unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax................. -- -- -- -- -- Reclassification adjustment for gains available-for-sale securities included net income....... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------- Total comprehensive income (loss)... Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans........ -- -- , -- -- Common stock issued connection with the Company\' redemption long-term debt..... -- -- , -- -- Common stock repurchased........... -- -- ( , ) ( ) -- -- ( ) Tax benefit related disqualifying dispositions stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- ------ ---- ------- ------ ------- ----- ------- Balances September , ................ $ , $ , $ , $ $ , ====== ==== ======= ====== ======= ===== ======= See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( MILLIONS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ------------------------------------------- -------- -------- -------- Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year............ $ , $ , $ , ------ ------ ------ Operating: Net income (loss)........................................... ( , ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization............................. Provision for deferred income taxes....................... ( ) ( ) Loss sale property, plant, and equipment............ -- -- Gains from sales investment............................ ( ) ( ) -- -process research and development....................... -- Changes operating assets and liabilities, net effects the acquisition NeXT: Accounts receivable....................................... Inventories............................................... Other current assets...................................... ( ) Other assets.............................................. ( ) ( ) Accounts payable.......................................... ( ) Accrued restructuring costs............................... ( ) Other current liabilities................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash generated operating activities.................. ------ ------ ------ Investing: Purchase short-term investments.......................... ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Proceeds from sales and maturities short-term investments............................................... , , Purchases long-term investments.......................... ( ) -- -- Proceeds from property, plant and equipment retirements..... Purchase property, plant, and equipment.................. ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used for acquisition technology..................... -- ( ) ( ) Proceeds from sales investment........................... -- Other....................................................... ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash used for investing activities...................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Financing: Decrease notes payable banks.......................... -- ( ) ( ) Proceeds from issuance preferred stock................... -- -- Proceeds from issuance common stock...................... Cash used for repurchase common stock.................... ( ) -- -- ------ ------ ------ Cash generated financing activities.................. ------ ------ ------ Total cash generated (used for).......................... ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash and cash equivalents, end the year.................. $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest.................... $ $ $ Cash paid (received) for income taxes, net................ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Noncash transactions: Issuance common stock for redemption long-term debt.................................................. $ -- -- Issuance common stock for acquisition PCC assets................................................ -- $ -- Issuance common stock for acquisition NeXT........ -- -- $ See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software and peripherals for sale primarily education, creative, consumer, and business customers. BASIS PRESENTATION AND PREPARATION The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. During the first quarter , the Company amended its -laws provide that beginning its fiscal year would end the last Saturday September rather than the last Friday. Likewise, beginning with the first fiscal quarter each the Company\' fiscal quarters now also end Saturday rather than Friday. Accordingly, one day was added the first quarter that the quarter ended Saturday, December , . These changes did not have material effect the Company\' revenue results operations for any quarter during fiscal . Fiscal years , and , each -week years, ended September , , and , respectively. Approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. The next -week year fiscal . FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. INVESTMENTS All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents. Investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. Investments with maturities greater than twelve months are classified long-term assets. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. These unrealized gains losses include any unrealized losses and gains interest rate contracts accounted for hedges against the available-for-sale securities. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE-SHEET RISK the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. The Company does not hold transact financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) The Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company\' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal . dollar value terms the related currency\' historically high correlation with the . dollar. Foreign exchange forward contracts are carried fair value other current liabilities. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and amortized over the life the option. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products and purchases raw material, subassemblies, and assembled finished goods currencies other than the functional currency. majority these transactions are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge the currency exchange risks associated with these probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase these foreign exchange option contracts. The term the Company\' foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions, probable but not firmly committed transactions, partially finance the foreign exchange risk management program currently does not extend beyond six months. addition, the Company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts hedge certain intercompany loan transactions. These forward contracts effectively change certain foreign currency denominated debt into . dollar denominated debt, which better matches against the Company\' . dollar denominated cash equivalents and short-term investments. Interest rate and foreign exchange instruments generally qualify accounting hedges their maturity dates are the same the hedged transactions and the hedged transactions meet certain requirements. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions regular basis based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event determined hedge ineffective, including and when the hedged transactions longer exists, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are generally recorded income shareholders\' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses accounting hedges realized before the settlement date the related hedged transaction are also generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not accounted for hedges are recorded income component interest and other income (expense), net. Sold interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not qualify accounting hedges. Premiums associated with sold foreign exchange option contracts are marked market through earnings. INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation and amortization are computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, from years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms estimated useful lives for leasehold improvements. LONG-LIVED ASSETS The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount, including the unamortized portion any allocated goodwill, future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets, including any allocated goodwill, exceeds its fair market value. The recoverability enterprise level goodwill assessed whenever the facts and circumstances suggest the asset may impaired. The Company assesses the recoverability enterprise level goodwill determining whether the unamortized goodwill balance can recovered through undiscounted future cash flows. For the three years ended September , , the Company has made adjustments its long-lived assets except those made connection with the restructuring actions described Note . STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The Company measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method and has provided Note pro forma disclosures the effect net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The Company translates the assets and liabilities its foreign sales subsidiaries year-end exchange rates. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged "accumulated translation adjustment" included "accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" shareholders\' equity. The Company\' foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other entities use the . dollar the functional currency and translate monetary assets and liabilities year-end exchange rates, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations are included the Company\' results operations and were not significant , . NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) REVENUE RECOGNITION The Company recognizes revenue the time products are shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns, price protection, rebates, and other sales programs. Historically, actual amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied significantly from estimated amounts. During , the Company adopted the American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , "Software Revenue Recognition," modified SOP - , "Modification SOP - With Respect Certain Transactions". SOP - establishes standards relating the recognition software revenue. SOP - was effective for transactions entered into the Company beginning the first quarter fiscal . The adoption SOP - did not have material impact the Company\' results operations. WARRANTY EXPENSE The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. ADVERTISING COSTS Advertising costs are charged expense the first time the advertising takes place. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , "Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed," has not materially affected the Company. EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE Basic earnings (loss) per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. The dilutive effect convertible securities reflected using the -converted method. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share ( thousands, except net income (loss) and per share amounts): FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , - ------------------- ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ Numerator ( millions): Numerator for basic earnings (loss) per share--net income (loss)............... $ $ $ ( , ) Interest expense convertible debt..... -- -------- -------- -------- Numerator for diluted earnings (loss) per share--adjusted net income (loss)...... $ $ $ ( , ) -------- -------- -------- Denominator: Denominator for basic earnings (loss) per share--weighted-average shares outstanding............................ , , , Effect dilutive securities: Convertible preferred stock.............. , , -- Dilutive options......................... , , -- Convertible debt......................... , , -- -------- -------- -------- Dilutive potential common shares........... , , -- -------- -------- -------- Denominator for diluted earnings (loss) per share--adjusted weighted-average shares and assumed conversions.................. , , , ======== ======== ======== Basic earnings (loss) per share............ $ $ $ ( ) ======== ======== ======== Diluted earnings (loss) per share.......... $ $ $ ( ) ======== ======== ======== Options purchase million and million shares common stock were outstanding the end and , respectively, that were not included the computation diluted earnings per share because the options\' exercise price was greater than the average market price the Company\' common shares for those years and, therefore, the effect would antidilitive. options outstanding were included the calculation diluted earnings per share for because the Company had net loss and would have been antidilutive. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The Company adopted SFAS . , "Reporting Comprehensive Income," beginning with the Company\' first quarter . SFAS . separates comprehensive income into two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. While SFAS . establishes new rules for the reporting and display comprehensive income, has impact the Company\' net income (loss) total shareholders\' equity. The Company\' other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency and from unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) SEGMENT INFORMATION During , the Company adopted SFAS . , "Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information." SFAS . supersedes SFAS . , "Financial Reporting for Segments Business Enterprise," replacing the "industry segment" approach with the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. SFAS . also requires disclosures about products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis. The adoption SFAS . did not affect results operations the financial position the Company but did affect the disclosure segment information. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS June , SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," was issued. SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . requires entity recognize all derivatives either assets liabilities the statement financial position and measure those instruments fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. June , SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities--Deferral the Effective Date FASB Statement . ," was issued. The statement defers the effective date SFAS . until the first quarter fiscal . Although the Company continues review the effect the implementation SFAS . , the Company does not currently believe its adoption will have material impact its financial position overall trends results operations and does not believe adoption will result significant changes its financial risk management practices. However, the impact adoption SFAS . the Company\' results operations dependent upon the fair values the Company\' derivatives and related financial instruments the date adoption. March , the AICPA issued SOP - , "Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use," which provides guidance accounting for the costs developing computer software intended for internal use. SOP - must adopted the Company effective fiscal and not expected have material impact the Company\' results operations financial position. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities amortized cost, which approximates fair value, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments September , , and September , ( millions): SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , AMORTIZED COST AMORTIZED COST ------------------ ------------------ . Treasury securities.................... $ $ . corporate securities................... Foreign securities.......................... ------ ------ Total included cash and cash equivalents............................. , , . Treasury securities.................... -- . corporate securities................... Foreign securities.......................... ------ ------ Total included short-term investments............................. , ------ ------ Total..................................... $ , $ , ====== ====== September , and , substantially all the Company\' investments had maturities less than twelve months. The Company\' . corporate securities include commercial paper and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participation and certificates deposit with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments have generally been held until maturity. Gross unrealized gains and losses were negligible September , and . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged primarily collateral support letters credit. TRADE RECEIVABLES The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and various education and consumer channels. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables through the use flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and credit insurance for certain customers Latin America and Asia. Although none the Company\' customers accounted for more than % net sales any the last three fiscal years, times considerable trade receivables, which are not covered collateral, are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES AND FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS The following table shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , and ( millions). SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ---------------------------------- ---------------------------------- NOTIONAL FAIR CREDIT RISK NOTIONAL FAIR CREDIT RISK PRINCIPAL VALUE AMOUNTS PRINCIPAL VALUE AMOUNTS --------- -------- ----------- --------- -------- ----------- Transactions qualifying accounting hedges: Interest rate instruments: Swaps....................................... $ $ ( ) $ -- $ $ $ Purchased floors............................ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ $ $ Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts...................... $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ -- Purchased options........................... $ , $ $ -- $ , $ $ Transactions other than accounting hedges: Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts...................... $ $ ( ) $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Purchased options........................... $ $ $ $ $ $ Sold options................................ $ $( ) $ -- $ $( ) $ -- The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , and . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. The interest rate swaps, which qualify accounting hedges, generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate year debt floating-rate debt and convert the floating rate investments fixed rate. The maturity date for $ million the asset swaps October with the remaining debt and asset swaps maturing February and September . September , and , interest rate debt swaps had weighted-average receive rate %. The weighted-average pay rate the debt swaps was % and % September , and , respectively. September , , interest rate asset swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and weighted-average pay rate %. The unrealized gains and losses these swaps are deferred and recognized income NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million September , , while deferred gains such contracts totaled $ million September , . Purchased floors are options that limit the Company\' exposure falling interest rates its cash equivalents and short-term investments locking minimum interest rate. The Company receives payment when interest rates fall below predetermined level. purchased floor generally qualifies for hedge accounting treatment and reported the balance sheet its premium cost, which amortized over the life the floor. The purchased floors are generally designated and effective hedges against interest rate risk the Company\' securities classified available-for-sale and are carried fair value other current liabilities with the unrealized gains and losses recorded component accumulated other comprehensive income. Purchased floors outstanding September , , provided the Company with the option weighted-average interest rate % the notional amount $ million. Gains and losses are recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , and . The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are also carried fair value other current liabilities with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. September , , all foreign exchange forward contracts held the Company mature within three months. the option contract designated and effective hedge firmly committed transaction, probable but not firmly committed transaction, then any gain loss deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such contracts were not significant September , and . the option contract used hedge asset liability, then the option carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transaction. September , , maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts and sold option contracts ranged from one four months. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the number agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' ten-year unsecured notes. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, which mature , the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. These agreements require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds are exceeded. The amounts held margin accounts were not significant September , . NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) LONG-TERM DEBT The carrying amounts and estimated fair values the Company\' long-term debt are follows ( millions): SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------- ------------------- CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE -------- -------- -------- -------- Ten-year unsecured notes( )................... $ $ $ $ Convertible subordinated notes( )............. $ -- $ -- $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) The fair value the ten-year unsecured notes based their listed market values September , and . ( ) The carrying amount the convertible subordinated notes prior consideration the related issuance costs. Their fair value reflective the underlying conversion feature the Notes. CONVERTIBLE NOTES During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the Notes) certain qualified parties private placement. The Notes were sold % par, paid interest semiannually, and matured June , not converted earlier. The Notes were convertible their holders any time after September , , conversion price $ per share subject adjustments defined the Note agreement. Notes had been converted September , . The Notes were redeemable the Company % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve month period beginning June , , and % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve month period beginning June , . The Notes were subordinated all present and future senior indebtedness the Company defined the Note agreement. addition, the Company incurred approximately $ million costs associated with the issuance the Notes. These costs were accounted for deduction from the face amount the Notes and were being amortized over the life the Notes. October , the Company registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) $ million the aggregate principal amount the Notes, including the related shares common stock issuable upon conversion these Notes. April , , the Company called for redemption the Notes. Not including approximately $ million unamortized debt issuance costs, debentures aggregate principal amount outstanding totaled approximately $ million March , . During the third quarter , debenture holders chose convert virtually all the outstanding debentures common stock rate $ per share resulting the issuance approximately million shares the Company\' common stock. UNSECURED NOTES During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . EQUITY INVESTMENT AND RELATED GAINS September , , the Company owned % the outstanding stock ARM Holdings plc (ARM), privately held company the United Kingdom involved the design high performance microprocessors and related technology. The Company had accounted for this investment using the equity NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) method through September , . April , , ARM completed initial public offering its stock the London Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ National Market. The Company sold % its shares the offering for gain before foreign taxes approximately $ million, which was recognized other income. Foreign tax recognized this gain was approximately $ million. the time equity method investee sells existing newly issued common stock unrelated parties excess its book value, the equity method requires the net book value the investment adjusted reflect the investor\' share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from the sale. the Company\' policy record adjustment reflecting its share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from such sale gain loss other income. Consequently, the Company also recognized the third quarter other income approximately $ million reflect its remaining % ownership interest the increased net book value ARM following its initial public offering. September , , the carrying value the Company\' investment ARM carried other assets the consolidated balance sheet was approximately $ million. October , , the Company sold million shares (split adjusted) ARM stock. result this sale, the Company\' ownership interest ARM fell %. Consequently, beginning the first quarter fiscal , the Company ceased accounting for its remaining investment ARM using the equity method and categorized its remaining shares available-for-sale requiring the shares carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses net taxes reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. During fiscal , the Company sold total approximately million shares (split adjusted) ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. September , , the Company holds million shares ARM stock valued $ million. The fair value the Company\' investment ARM reflected other assets September , , with offsetting amount net $ million related deferred taxes recognized accumulated other comprehensive income. OTHER LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS During the fourth quarter , the Company invested $ million Samsung Electronics ., Ltd (Samsung) assist the further expansion Samsung\' TFT-LCD flat-panel display production capacity. The investment the form three year unsecured bonds, which convertible into approximately , shares Samsung common stock beginning June . The bonds carry annual coupon rate % and pay total yield maturity % redeemed their maturity. June , the Company invested $ million Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), global Internet content delivery service. The investment, the form convertible preferred stock, convertible into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits). The Company restricted from selling more than % its shares within one year after the date the closing public offering Akamai\' stock. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT DETAILS INVENTORIES ( millions) -------- -------- Purchased parts............................................. $ $ Work process............................................. Finished goods.............................................. --- --- Total inventories........................................... $ $ === === PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT ( millions) -------- -------- Land and buildings.......................................... $ $ Machinery and equipment..................................... Office furniture and equipment.............................. Leasehold improvements...................................... ---- ---- Accumulated depreciation and amortization................... ( ) ( ) ---- ---- Net property, plant, and equipment.......................... $ $ ==== ==== ACCRUED EXPENSES ( millions) -------- -------- Accrued compensation and employee benefits.................. $ $ Accrued marketing and distribution.......................... Accrued warranty and related costs.......................... Other current liabilities................................... ---- ---- Total accrued expenses...................................... $ $ ==== ==== INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) ( millions) -------- -------- -------- Interest income.......................................... $ $ $ Interest expense......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss)............................. ( ) ( ) Net premiums and discounts foreign exchange instruments............................................ ( ) ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net.............................. ( ) ( ) ---- ---- --- $ $ $ ==== ==== === NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SPECIAL CHARGES RESTRUCTURING OPERATIONS AND RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS the second quarter , the Company announced and began implement restructuring plan designed reduce costs and return the Company profitability. The restructuring plan was necessitated decreased demand for the Company\' products and the Company\' adoption new strategic direction. These actions resulted charge during $ million. During , the Company announced and began implement supplemental restructuring actions meet the foregoing objectives the plan. The Company recognized $ million charge during for the estimated incremental costs those actions. All material restructuring actions contemplated under the plan were essentially complete the end fiscal . The combined and restructuring actions consisted terminating approximately , full-time employees; canceling vacating certain facility leases result those employee terminations; writing down certain land, buildings, and equipment sold result downsizing operations and outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling contracts for projects and technologies that were not critical the Company\' core business strategy. The restructuring actions under the plan resulted cash expenditures $ million and noncash asset write-downs $ million from the second quarter through September , . the combined and restructuring charges $ million, approximately $ million was determined excess during the fourth quarter and was reversed. The remaining balance $ million September , comprised payments over the next two years leases and contracts that had been terminated prior fiscal . The Company expects the remaining accrual will result cash expenditures $ million over the next two years. The following table depicts the restructuring activity through September , , associated with the and restructuring actions described above ( millions): PAYMENTS EMPLOYEES PAYMENTS WRITE-DOWN PAYMENTS INVOLUNTARILY CANCELED FACILITY OPERATING ASSETS CANCELED TERMINATED( ) LEASES ( ) SOLD ( ) CONTRACTS ( ) TOTAL ------------- ----------------- ---------------- ------------- -------- Net Additions during ...... $ $ $ $ $ Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... Net Additions during ...... Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... Adjustments during ........ ( ) -- Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... -- Adjustments during ........ ( ) ( ) -- ( ) Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) -- ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... $ -- $ $ -- $ $ ==== ==== ==== ==== ===== - ------------------------ ( ): Cash; ( ): Noncash. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SPECIAL CHARGES (CONTINUED) RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the fourth quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting charge operations $ million. The net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the fourth quarter reflects the $ million excess reserves related the and restructuring actions. The total cost these actions $ million, which comprised $ million for contract cancellation charges associated with the closure the Company\' outsourced data center and $ million for contract cancellation charges related supply and development agreements previously discontinued. The Company expects these actions result cash expenditures $ million over the next year. During the second quarter , the Company took certain actions improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. These restructuring actions resulted the Company recognizing charge operations approximately $ million during the second quarter , which was comprised $ million for severance benefits paid employees involuntarily terminated, $ million for the write-down operating assets disposed , and $ million for payments canceled contracts. These actions resulted the termination approximately employees and are substantially complete September , . TECHNOLOGY ACQUISITION May , the Company acquired certain technology that was under development and had alternative future use. The acquisition resulted the recognition $ million purchased -process research and development, which was charged operations upon acquisition. TERMINATION LICENSE AGREEMENT August , the Company agreed acquire certain assets Power Computing Corporation (PCC), licensed distributor the Mac operating system, including PCC\' customer database and its license distribute the Mac . The agreement with PCC also included release claims between the parties. January , , the Company completed its acquisition certain assets from PCC. The total purchase price was approximately $ million, which $ million was expensed the fourth quarter "termination license agreement" and $ million was recorded goodwill the second quarter . The goodwill being amortized over three years. The purchase price was comprised approximately million shares the Company\' common stock valued $ million, forgiveness $ million receivables due from PCC, and assumption the Company $ million certain customer support liabilities PCC. NEXT ACQUISITION February , , the Company acquired all the outstanding shares NeXT Software, Inc. (NeXT). NeXT, headquartered Redwood City, California, had developed, marketed and supported software enabling customers implement business applications the Internet World Wide Web, intranets and enterprise-wide client server networks. The total purchase price was $ million and was comprised cash payments $ million and the issuance million shares the Company\' common stock the NeXT shareholders valued approximately $ million according the terms the purchase agreement; the issuance approximately million options purchase the Company\' common stock the NeXT optionholders valued approximately $ million; cash payments $ million the NeXT debtholders; cash payments $ million for closing and related costs, and $ million net liabilities assumed. The acquisition was accounted for purchase; and, accordingly, the operating results NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SPECIAL CHARGES (CONTINUED) pertaining NeXT subsequent the date acquisition have been included the Company\' operating results. The total purchase price was allocated purchased -process research and development ($ million) and goodwill and other intangible assets ($ million). The purchased -process research and development was charged operations upon acquisition, and the goodwill and other intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over two three years. NOTE --INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): -------- --------- --------- Federal: Current.................................................. $ $ -- $ -- Deferred................................................. -- -- --- --------- --------- -- -- --- --------- --------- State: Current.................................................. -- -- -- Deferred................................................. -- -- --- --------- --------- -- -- --- --------- --------- Foreign: Current.................................................. -- Deferred................................................. ( ) -- --- --------- --------- -- --- --------- --------- Provision for income taxes................................. $ $ $ -- === ========= ========= The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings (loss) approximately $ million, $ million, and $( ) million , , and , respectively. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Except for such indefinitely reinvested earnings, the Company provides for federal and state income taxes currently undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED) September , and , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): -------- -------- Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves................ $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves.................... Basis capital assets and investments................... Tax losses and credits.................................... ---- ---- Total deferred tax assets................................. Less valuation allowance.................................... ---- ---- Net deferred tax assets..................................... ---- ---- Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries....................... Available-for-sale securities............................. -- Other..................................................... ---- ---- Total deferred tax liabilities............................ ---- ---- Net deferred tax asset...................................... $ $ ==== ==== September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire principally and . This does not include approximately $ million remaining operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT, which expire - , and the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . Most the remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and tax benefits certain foreign jurisdictions. The net change the total valuation allowance was decrease $ million. Management believes more likely than not forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED) reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income (loss) before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Computed expected tax (benefit)........................ $ $ $( ) State taxes, net federal effect..................... ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries......................................... ( ) ( ) -- Purchase accounting and asset acquisitions............. Valuation allowance.................................... ( ) ( ) Other individually immaterial items.................... ( ) ----- ---- ----- Provision for income taxes............................. $ $ $ -- ===== ==== ===== Effective tax rate..................................... % % % The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the United States Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although most the issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. NOTE --SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY STOCK REPURCHASE PLAN July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. September , , the Company had repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. PREFERRED STOCK August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock ("preferred stock") for $ million. Except under limited circumstances, the shares preferred stock may not sold Microsoft prior August , . Upon any sale the preferred stock Microsoft, the shares will automatically converted into shares Apple common stock conversion price $ per share, and the shares can converted Microsoft\' option such price after August , . Each share preferred stock entitled receive, and when declared the Company\' Board Directors, dividend $ per share per annum, payable preference any dividend the Company\' common stock. Additionally, the dividends per share paid the common stock are greater than the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, then the Board Directors shall declare additional dividend such that the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, shall equal the dividends per share paid the common stock. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY (CONTINUED) EXECUTIVE OFFICER STOCK PLAN The Company has effect Executive Officer Stock Plan (the Plan), which replaced the Stock Option Plan terminated April , the Stock Option Plan terminated October , and the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan terminated July . Options granted before these plans\' termination dates remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan the Chairman the Board Directors, executive officers the Company the level Senior Vice President and above, and other key employees. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. total , , shares have been authorized for issuance under the Plan, which , , shares are reserved for future issuance September , . EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. total , , shares have been authorized for issuance under the Plan, which , , shares are reserved for future issuance September , . DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP), for which directors the Company are eligible. Options granted under the DSOP vest three equal installments, each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. total , shares have been authorized for issuance under the DSOP, which , shares remain reserved for future issuance. Supplementally and separate from the DSOP, , options had been granted total two members the Company\' Board Directors, and were outstanding September , . EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end the six-month offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. During and , , and million shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. SENIOR OFFICERS RESTRICTED PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN November , the Company\' Board Directors issued approximately , fully vested shares and cash settlement shares certain officers the Company under the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan (the PSP) based upon the achievement certain performance goals established advance the Compensation Committee the Board. Immediately after these shares were issued, the Company\' Board Directors terminated the PSP. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY (CONTINUED) SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN May , the Company adopted shareholder rights plan and distributed dividend one right purchase one share common stock ( Right) for each outstanding share common stock the Company. The Rights would have become exercisable certain limited circumstances involving potential business combination transaction the Company and would have become initially exercisable price $ per share. Following certain other events after the Rights had become exercisable, each Right would have entitled its holder purchase for $ amount common stock the Company, , certain circumstances, securities the acquiror, having then-current market value two times the exercise price the Right. The Rights expired April , . STOCK OPTION ACTIVITY summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , and , and September , , follows (option amounts are presented thousands): YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- NUMBER WEIGHTED- NUMBER WEIGHTED- NUMBER WEIGHTED- AVERAGE AVERAGE AVERAGE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE -------- -------------- -------- -------------- -------- -------------- Options outstanding--beginning year.............................. , $ , $ , $ Granted (price equals FMV)........ , $ , $ , $ Granted (price less than FMV)..... -- $ -- -- $ -- , $ Exercised......................... ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ Forfeited......................... ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ------ ------- ------- Options outstanding--end year.... , $ , $ , $ ====== ======= ======= Options exercisable end year.............................. , $ , $ , $ The options granted fiscal price less than fair market value were existing NeXT optionholders part the total purchase price paid for NeXT (see Note ). The options outstanding September , , have been segregated into five ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): OPTIONS OUTSTANDING OPTIONS EXERCISABLE ----------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- WEIGHTED- OPTIONS AVERAGE WEIGHTED OPTIONS WEIGHTED OUTSTANDING REMAINING AVERAGE EXERCISABLE AVERAGE SEPTEMBER , CONTRACTUAL LIFE EXERCISE SEPTEMBER , EXERCISE YEARS PRICE PRICE ----------------- ---------------- -------- ----------------- -------- $ -$ ................... , $ , $ $ -$ .................. , $ $ $ -$ .................. , $ $ $ -$ .................. , $ $ $ -$ .................. , $ $ ------ ----- $ -$ ................... , $ , $ ====== ===== September , , approximately million options were reserved for future grant under the Company\' stock option plans. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY (CONTINUED) December , the Board Directors approved option exchange program allowing employees exchange all (but not less than all) their existing options (vested and unvested) with exercise price greater than $ , one-for-one basis for new options with exercise price $ , the fair market value the Company\' common stock December , , and new four year vesting schedule beginning December . total million options with weighted-average exercise price $ per share were exchanged for new options result this program. July , the Board Directors approved option exchange program allowing employees exchange all (but not less than all) their existing options (vested and unvested) purchase Apple common stock (other than options granted and assumed from NeXT) for options having exercise price $ and new three year vesting period beginning July . Approximately million options were repriced under this program. NOTE --STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , "Accounting for Stock Issued Employees," and related interpretations accounting for its employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) per share required SFAS . and has been determined the Company had accounted for its employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases subsequent September , , under the fair value method that statement. The fair values for these options and stock purchases were estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted-average fair value per share options granted during and includes the excess value the repriced options granted during those fiscal years less the value the related forfeited options the date the repriced options were granted. The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: --------- --------- --------- Expected life options.................... years years years Expected life stock purchases............ months months months Interest rate--stock options................ % % % Interest rate--stock purchases.............. % % % Volatility--stock options................... % % % Volatility--stock purchases................. % % % Dividend yields............................. Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year................... $ $ $ The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value traded options that have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because the NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (CONTINUED) Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, management\' opinion, the existing models not necessarily provide reliable single measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares are amortized pro forma net income (loss) over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The value the options granted NeXT optionholders has been included the total purchase price paid for NeXT and, therefore, not included the adjustment arrive the pro forma net loss. The Company\' pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): -------- -------- -------- Net income (loss)-- reported....................... $ $ $( , ) Net income (loss)--pro forma......................... $ $ $( , ) Net income (loss) per common share-- reported Basic.............................................. $ $ $ ( ) Diluted............................................ $ $ $ ( ) Net income (loss) per common share--pro forma Basic.............................................. $ $ $ ( ) Diluted............................................ $ $ $ ( ) SFAS . applicable only options granted shares issued subsequent September , , its pro forma effect was not fully reflected until . NOTE --COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES LEASE COMMITMENTS The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): FISCAL YEARS - ------------ ........................................................ $ ........................................................ ........................................................ ........................................................ ........................................................ Later years................................................. ---- Total minimum lease payments................................ $ ==== NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED) CONCENTRATIONS THE AVAILABLE SOURCES SUPPLY MATERIALS AND PRODUCT Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, "ASICs") are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\' CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules and levels, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. LITIGATION ABRAHAM AND EVELYN KOSTICK TRUST . PETER CRISP . January , purported shareholder derivative action was filed the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming the Company and its then directors defendants, seeking injunctive relief and damages for alleged acts mismanagement. Between February and October , the complaint was amended several times result the Courts\' rulings upon various demurrers filed the Company. The Third Amended Complaint was filed October , and eliminated the class action claims and restated claims against certain directors and former directors. November , the Company\' Board Directors appointed special investigation committee and engaged independent counsel assist the investigation the claims made the Third Amended Complaint. This matter was settled during the fourth quarter for amount not material the Company\' financial position results operations. MEN\' CLOTHING DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION FUND . MICHAEL SPINDLER . May , action was filed the California Superior Court naming defendants the Company and certain its current and former officers and directors and seeking compensatory and punitive damages for alleged misrepresentation and omission material facts about the Company\' operations and financial results. Between May and November , the complaint was has been amended several times result the Court\' rulings upon various demurrers the Company. January , the Company and three individual defendants brought motion dismiss the third amended complaint, and, March , the Court granted the motion dismiss the third amended complaint without leave amend. The plaintiffs filed appeal the Sixth Appellate District June . The Court Appeal heard oral argument November and has not yet ruled. "REPETITIVE STRESS INJURY" LITIGATION The Company was named approximately lawsuits between , alleging plaintiffs incurred -called "repetitive stress" injuries their upper extremities result using keyboards and mouse input devices sold the Company. These actions are similar those filed against other major suppliers NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED) personal computers. All but three the cases against the Company were dismissed the end fiscal . During fiscal , the remaining three cases were dismissed. MONITOR-SIZE LITIGATION August , the Company was named, along with other entities, including computer manufacturers and computer monitor vendors, putative nationwide class action filed the California Superior Court for Orange County, styled Keith Long . . Amazing Technologies Corp. . The complaint alleges each the defendants engaged false misleading advertising with respect the size computer monitor screens. Also August , the Company was named the sole defendant purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Camden County, entitled Mahendri Shah . Apple Computer, Inc. Subsequently, November , the Company, along with other entities, was named purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Essex County, entitled Maizes & Maizes . Apple Computer, Inc. .. The complaints all these cases seek restitution the form refunds product exchange, damages, punitive damages, and attorneys fees. December , the California Judicial Council ordered all the California actions, including Long, coordinated for purposes pretrial proceedings and trial before single judge. These actions were subsequently coordinated under the name Computer Monitor Litigation. July , the Court ordered all the California cases dismissed without leave amend plaintiffs residing California. March , the Court granted final approval settlement resolving all claims and all subsequent appeals have been dismissed. EXPONENTIAL TECHNOLOGY INC. . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. Plaintiff, Exponential Technology, Inc. (Exponential), alleged the Company, which was investor Exponential, breached its fiduciary duty Exponential misusing confidential information and that the Company fraudulently misrepresented the facts about allowing Exponential sell its processors the Company\' Mac licensees. The lawsuit was filed California Superior Court for Santa Clara County. November , the Company filed demurrer portions the complaint, which the Court granted part. January , the plaintiff filed Amended Complaint. March , the Company filed cross-complaint for damages against Exponential alleging breach contract, negligent misrepresentation, and violations the California Corporations Code. This matter was settled during the fourth quarter for amount not material the Company\' financial position results operations. FTC INQUIRY--PRADO . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (AND RELATED ACTIONS) October , Apple began charging all . noneducation customers for live telephone technical support beyond days after purchase Apple products. late , the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) commenced investigation into customer complaints that Apple\' change technical support practices was either unfair contrary earlier representations certain customers. Four purported class action lawsuits were filed against Apple related this change. During the fourth quarter , the regional and national offices the FTC approved settlement with the Company, and settlement was approved the Court three the class action suits. November , two appeals were filed objecting the settlement and therefore the settlement stayed pending resolution the appeals. Settlement these matters was not material the Company\' financial position results operations. MICROWARE SYSTEMS CORPORATION . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. Plaintiff, Microware Systems Corporation (Microware), filed this action against the Company September , , the United States District Court for the Southern District Iowa. Microware alleges that NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED) the Company\' current release its Mac operating system, Mac , infringes Microware\' trademark for its real time operating system, - . Microware asserts claims for trademark infringement, false designation origin, dilution and common law trademark infringement and unfair competition. October , , Microware filed motion for preliminary injunction seeking enjoin the Company from using the designation "Mac " and order the Company cancel and withdraw all packaging and advertisements that mention "Mac ." The Company has opposed the motion for preliminary injunction and has filed motion for summary judgment against all Microware\' claims. The Court has not yet scheduled hearing date for the motion. OTHER LITIGATION The Company also subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. The results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty; however, the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any legal proceedings and claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition results operations. NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, and Japan. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, Filemaker, Inc. Each reportable operating segment provides similar products and services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described the Summary Significant Accounting Policies Note . The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales and operating income. Operating income for each segment includes revenue, cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Net sales are based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the reportable segment. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, income taxes, and nonrecurring charges for purchased -process research and development, restructuring, and acquisition related costs. Corporate expenses include research and development, manufacturing expenses not included segment cost sales, corporate marketing expenses, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, and intangible assets. Capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA (CONTINUED) Summary information segment follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Americas: Net Sales......................................... $ , $ , $ , Operating Income.................................. $ $ $ Depreciation and Amortization..................... $ $ $ Segment Assets ( )................................ $ $ $ Europe: Net Sales......................................... $ , $ , $ , Operating Income.................................. $ $ $ Depreciation and Amortization..................... $ $ $ Segment Assets.................................... $ $ $ Japan: Net Sales......................................... $ $ $ , Operating Income.................................. $ $ $ Depreciation and Amortization..................... $ $ $ Segment Assets.................................... $ $ $ Other Segments: Net Sales......................................... $ $ $ Operating Income.................................. $ $ $ Depreciation and Amortization..................... $ $ $ Segment Assets.................................... $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the United States. Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA (CONTINUED) reconciliation the Company\' segment operating income (loss), and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Segment Operating Income........................... $ $ $ Corporate Expenses, net............................ ( ) ( ) ( ) -process Research and Development................ -- ( ) ( ) Restructuring...................................... ( ) -- ( ) Termination License Agreement................... -- -- ( ) ------ ------ ------- Total Operating Income (loss).................... $ $ $( , ) ====== ====== ======= Segment Assets..................................... $ $ , $ , Corporate Assets................................... , , , ------ ------ ------- Total Assets..................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ======= Segment Depreciation and Amortization.............. $ $ $ Corporate Depreciation and Amortization............ ------ ------ ------- Total Depreciation and Amortization............ $ $ $ ====== ====== ======= large portion the Company\' net sales derived from its international operations. Also, majority the raw materials used the Company\' products obtained from sources outside the United States, and majority the products sold the Company assembled internationally the Company\' facilities Cork, Ireland and Singapore third-party vendors Taiwan, Korea, Mexico, and the United Kingdom. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , , . Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the United States, Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Net Sales: United States....................................... $ , $ , $ , Japan............................................... , Other Foreign Countries............................. , , , ------ ------ ------ Total Net Sales................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Long-Lived Assets: United States....................................... $ $ $ Japan............................................... Other Foreign Countries............................. ------ ------ ------ Total Long-Lived Assets........................... $ $ $ ====== ====== ====== NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA (CONTINUED) Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Net Sales: Power Macintosh..................................... $ , $ , $ , PowerBook........................................... , iMac ( )............................................ , , , iBook............................................... -- -- Software, Service, and Other Net Sales.............. , , , ------ ------ ------ Total Net Sales................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== - ------------------------ ( ) Net sales figures for iMac and include sales the Company\' previous consumer and education oriented Macintosh products. NOTE --SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) FOURTH QUARTER THIRD QUARTER SECOND QUARTER FIRST QUARTER -------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- (TABULAR AMOUNTS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin............................. $ $ $ $ Net income............................... $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic.................................. $ $ $ $ Diluted................................ $ $ $ $ Net sales................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin............................. $ $ $ $ Net income............................... $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic.................................. $ $ $ $ Diluted................................ $ $ $ $ Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income during the fourth, third, second, and first quarters included after tax gains resulting from the sale shares the Company\' investment ARM $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Gains before tax the sale ARM shares are recognized other income. Net income for the fourth quarter included net $ million restructuring charge for contract cancellation charges related previously outsourced services and previously discontinued business. Net income for the second quarter included $ million restructuring charge resulting from actions the Company improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations, which included moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. Net income for the third quarter included after tax gains resulting from the sale shares the Company\' investment ARM $ million. The third quarter also includes the recognition $ million purchased -process research and development charged operations upon acquisition. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( MILLIONS) CHARGED ALLOWANCE FOR BEGINNING COSTS AND ENDING DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS: BALANCE EXPENSES DEDUCTIONS( ) BALANCE - ------------------ --------- ---------- ------------- -------- Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT DIRECTORS Listed below are the Company\' directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. NAME POSITION WITH THE COMPANY AGE DIRECTOR SINCE - ---- ------------------------- -------- -------------- William . Campbell................. Director Gareth . Chang................... Director Millard . Drexler.................. Director Lawrence . Ellison................. Director Steven . Jobs...................... Director and interim Chief Executive Officer Edgar . Woolard, ................ Director Jerome . York...................... Director WILLIAM . CAMPBELL has been chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("INTUIT") since August . Since September , . Campbell has been acting Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors SanDisk Corporation and Great Plains Software. GARETH . . CHANG has served Chairman and Chief Executive Officer STAR since September . Prior joining STAR , . Chang was President Hughes Electronics International and Corporate Senior Vice President Hughes Electronics since . Previously, was Corporate Vice President McDonnell Douglas Corporation. currently executive director News Corp., and member the Advisory Council Nike Inc. MILLARD . DREXLER has been Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. since , and President the Gap, Inc. since . has also served the Chief Executive Officer the Gap Division since and the Chief Executive Officer Old Navy Inc. since . From served the Chief Operating Officer the Gap Division and from served the Chief Executive Officer Banana Republic, Inc. . Drexler currently director Restoration Hardware, Inc. LAWRENCE . ELLISON has been Chief Executive Officer and director Oracle Corporation ("ORACLE") since -founded Oracle May , and was President Oracle until June . . Ellison has been Chairman the Board Oracle since June . . Ellison also director SuperGen, Inc., Liberate Technologies, and Spring Group PLC. STEVEN . JOBS one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its interim Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. ("NEXT") and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. . Jobs currently director Gap Inc. EDGAR . WOOLARD, . retired Chairman the Board Directors . . DuPont Nemours & . ("DUPONT") October , having served Chariman since . remains director DuPont. Previously, held the positions President and Chief Executive Officer DuPont. currently director CITIGROUP, Inc. and DuPont. JEROME . YORK Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Corporation, private investment and consulting concern founded . Previously, was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation from September October . May , joined International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and served director IBM from January August . Prior joining IBM, . York served number executive positions Chrysler Corporation, including Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May May . also served director Chrysler Corporation from . . York also director Waste Management, Inc., MGM Grand, Inc., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. and National TechTeam, Inc. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled "DIRECTORS". FRED . ANDERSON, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ) joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ("ADP"), position held from August March . TIMOTHY . COOK, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations (age ) joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation ("COMPAQ"). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. NANCY . HEINEN, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ) joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . MITCHELL MANDICH, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales (age ) joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. . Mandich has also served the Company the position Vice President, North American Business Division. Prior joining the Company, . Mandich held the position Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Service with NeXT from December through February . JONATHAN RUBINSTEIN, Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated ("FIREPOWER"), from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. AVADIS TEVANIAN, ., ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. SINA TAMADDON, Senior Vice President, Service & Support (age ) joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. SECTION ( ) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company, the absence Form Form written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that, during fiscal year , its officers, directors and greater than ten percent beneficial owners complied with all applicable Section ( ) filing requirements. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION INFORMATION REGARDING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, interim Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the "NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS"). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE SECURITIES RESTRICTED UNDERLYING ALL OTHER NAME AND FISCAL SALARY BONUS STOCK AWARDS OPTIONS COMPENSATION PRINCIPAL POSITION YEAR ($) ($) ($) (#) ($) - ------------------ -------- -------- -------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ANNUAL COMPENSATION LONG-TERM COMPENSATION Steven . Jobs...................... -- -- -- -- interim Chief Executive Officer -- -- -- -- -- -- -- , ( ) -- Fred . Anderson.................... , -- -- , , ( ) Executive Vice President , -- -- , ( ) , ( ) and Chief Financial Officer , -- , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Timothy . Cook..................... , -- -- , , ( ) Senior Vice President, , , ( ) -- , , ( ) Worldwide Operations -- -- -- -- -- Mitchell Mandich.................... , -- -- , , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- -- , ( ) , ( ) Worldwide Sales , , -- , ( )( ) , ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein................. , -- -- , , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- -- , ( ) , ( ) Hardware Engineering , , , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) - -------------------------- ( ) . Jobs was granted , stock options his capacity director the Company pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) Includes the replacement , , , and , options that were previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Mandich and Rubinstein, respectively, and canceled pursuant the December stock option exchange program. Other than the replacement options, Messrs. Anderson and Rubinstein were not granted any options during the fiscal year. ( ) Includes $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) For fiscal year , these amounts represent the value February , the Common Stock underlying the Performance Shares earned . Anderson and . Rubinstein under the terms the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan. . Anderson and . Rubinstein earned , and , performance shares, respectively. dividends were paid the Performance Shares. the last day fiscal year , . Anderson and . Rubistein held other Performance Shares restricted stock. ( ) Includes the replacement , , , and , options that were previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Mandich and Rubinstein respectively, and canceled pursuant the July stock option exchange program. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms its ( ) plan. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) connection with his employment, . Cook received one-time hiring bonus the amount $ , . ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms its ( ) plan. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms its ( ) plan. ( ) Includes , NeXT options that were converted into Apple options during fiscal year connection with Apple\' acquisition NeXT. ( ) Includes $ , from the disqualifying disposition the sale shares the Company stock acquired through the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR The following table provides information about option grants the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR INDIVIDUAL GRANTS ------------------------------------------------------------ NUMBER POTENTIAL REALIZABLE VALUE SECURITIES ASSUMED ANNUAL RATES UNDERLYING PERCENT TOTAL STOCK PRICE APPRECIATION FOR OPTIONS OPTIONS GRANTED EXERCISE OPTION TERM( ) GRANTED EMPLOYEES BASE EXPIRATION ----------------------------- NAME (#) FISCAL YEAR( ) PRICE ($/ )( ) DATE % ($) % ($) - ---- ---------- ---------------- --------------- ---------- ------------- ------------- Steven . Jobs............. -- % -- -- -- -- Fred . Anderson........... , % $ $ , , $ , , Timothy . Cook............ , % $ $ , , $ , , Mitchell Mandich........... , % $ $ , , $ , , Jonathan Rubinstein........ , % $ $ , $ , , - ------------------------ ( ) Based aggregate , , options granted all employees during fiscal year . Options typically vest four equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. ( ) All options were granted exercise price equal the fair market value based the closing market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market the date grant. ( ) Potential gains are net exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These amounts represent certain assumed rates appreciation only, based SEC rules, and not represent the Company\' estimate projection the price the Company\' stock the future. Actual gains, any, stock option exercises depend upon the actual future price Common Stock and the continued employment the option holders throughout the vesting period. Accordingly, the potential realizable values set forth this table may not achieved. OPTIONS EXERCISED AND YEAR-END OPTION HOLDINGS The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES NUMBER SECURITIES UNDERLYING UNEXERCISED VALUE UNEXERCISED - SHARES OPTIONS FISCAL YEAR-END THE-MONEY OPTIONS ACQUIRED VALUE (#) FISCAL YEAR-END ($)( ) EXERCISE REALIZED --------------------------- --------------------------- NAME (#) ($)( ) EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE - ---- ----------- --------- ----------- ------------- ----------- ------------- Steven . Jobs............... -- -- , , , , Fred . Anderson............. , , , , , , , , , Timothy Cook................. , , , , , , Mitchell Mandich............. , , , , , , , , , Jonathan Rubinstein.......... , , , , , , , , , - ------------------------ ( ) Market value underlying securities (based the fair market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market) the time exercise, minus the exercise price. ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. DIRECTOR COMPENSATION , the Company ended its practice paying cash retainers and fees directors, and approved the Apple Computer, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan (the "DIRECTOR PLAN"). The Director Plan was approved the shareholders April , and , shares have been reserved for issuance under the Director Plan. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board ("INITIAL OPTIONS"). the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock ("ANNUAL OPTIONS"). Initial Options vest and become exercisable equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. October , , there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION The current members the Board\' Compensation Committee are Messrs. Woolard and Chang, neither whom employee the Company. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee fiscal year . During fiscal year , executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. COMPANY STOCK PERFORMANCE The following graph shows five-year comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Composite Index (the " & ") and the & Computers (Hardware) Index (the "INDUSTRY INDEX"). The graph assumes $ was invested each the Common Stock, the & and the Industry Index September , . Data points the graph are annual. Note that historic stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN BASED UPON INITIAL INVESTMENT $ SEPTEMBER , WITH DIVIDENDS REINVESTED EDGAR REPRESENTATION DATA POINTS USED PRINTED GRAPHIC CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN BASED UPON INITIAL INVESTMENT $ SEPTEMBER , WITH DIVIDENDS REINVESTED Apple Computer Inc. & & Computers (Hardware) -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ SOURCE: GEORGESON SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION INC. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The following table sets forth certain information November , (the "TABLE DATE") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. SECURITY OWNERSHIP DIRECTORS, NOMINEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS SHARES COMMON STOCK NAME BENEFICIAL OWNER BENEFICIALLY OWNED( ) - ------------------------ ---------------------- Fred . Anderson....................................... , ( ) William . Campbell.................................... , ( ) Gareth . . Chang..................................... , ( ) Timothy . Cook........................................ Millard . Drexler..................................... Lawrence . Ellison.................................... , ( ) Steven . Jobs......................................... , ( ) Mitchell Mandich....................................... , ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein.................................... , ( ) Edgar . Woolard, ................................... , Jerome . York......................................... , ( ) All executive officers and directors group ( persons)......................................... , ( ) - ------------------------ ( ) All amounts listed this table represent less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell, Chang, Ellison, Jobs and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Constitutes , shares Common Stock which . Mandich has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held executive officers and directors and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ITEM . ARRANGEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The Company entered into employment agreement with . Anderson effective April , , pursuant which serves Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer the Company. Pursuant his agreement, . Anderson entitled annual base salary less than $ , . . Anderson\' employment terminated the Company without "Cause" any time during the five-year period following April , , will entitled receive lump sum severance payment equal the sum his annual base salary and target bonus, any. . Anderson\' agreement generally defines "Cause" include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his employment duties. February , . Cook joined the Company Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. Under the terms his employment, entitled annual base salary less than $ , . addition, . Cook received one-time hiring bonus the amount $ , and stock option grant with sell-back provision. The sell-back provision provides that during the five-day period starting the second anniversary his commencement employment, may elect sell all his remaining vested and unvested options and shares (obtained through the exercise such options) back the Company for the sum $ million less any profits . Cook has realized date through the exercise and sale such options (the "Sell-back Option"). During fiscal , . Cook realized net profits from the exercise and sale his options excess $ million. The Sell-back Option has future effect. . Cook\' employment terminated the Company without "Cause" during the first two years his employment, will entitled receive amount equal $ , minus the total base salary has received since the start his employment. CHANGE CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS--STOCK OPTIONS the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Stock Option Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Stock Option Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted Timothy . Cook, Nancy . Heinen, Mitchell Mandich and Sina Tamaddon provide that the event there "change control", defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control", their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason", those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control", shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. CHANGE CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS--RETENTION AGREEMENTS The Company was party retention agreements (the "RETENTION AGREEMENTS") with three executive officers (Messrs. Anderson, Rubinstein and Tevanian) providing for certain cash payments the event termination employment following change control the Company. March, , Messrs. Anderson, Rubinstein and Tevanian agreed waive any rights they may have under the Retention Agreements. exchange, all options previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Rubinstein and Tevanian were amended include "change control" provision similar the provision contained option grants Messrs. Cook, Mandich, Tamaddon and . Heinen. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS connection with the Company\' use aircraft transport its executive officers, the Company paid approximately $ , during fiscal year Wing & Prayer, company wholly-owned Lawrence . Ellison. REPORT THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE THE BOARD DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The Company\' executive compensation program administered the Compensation Committee the Board Directors (the "COMMITTEE"). The role the Committee, which comprised two outside non-employee directors, review and approve the base salaries, bonuses, stock options and other compensation the executive officers and management-level employees the Company. The Committee also administers the Company\' stock option plans and makes grants executive officers under the Executive Officer Stock Plan (the " Plan"). The Company\' executive compensation program utilizes Company performance, individual performance and increase stockholder value over time determinants executive pay levels. These principles are intended motivate executive officers improve the financial position the Company, hold executives accountable for the performance the organizations for which they are responsible, attract key executives into the service the Company and create value for the Company\' shareholders. The compensation for executive officers based two elements: Cash compensation and equity-based compensation. CASH COMPENSATION The Company reviews executive compensation surveys both the computer industry and general industry ensure that the total cash compensation provided executive officers and senior management remains competitive level enable the Company attract and retain management personnel with the talents and skills required meet the challenges highly competitive industry. The compensation executive officers, other than . Jobs, interim Chief Executive Officer, reviewed annually the Committee. BONUSES For fiscal year , the Compensation Committee approved the FY99 Vice Presidents and Directors Incentive Bonus Plan (the "BONUS PLAN"), under which cash bonuses for employees the level director and above were determined based specified revenue, unit shipments and profit targets for the Company. Because the Company did not achieve the metrics specified the Bonus Plan, payments were made thereunder. Executive officers and members the Board Directors are not eligible participate the Bonus Plan. EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION fiscal year , the Compensation Committee emphasized equity-based compensation, principally the form options, the cornerstone the Company\' executive compensation program. Equity awards are typically set the Compensation Committee based industry surveys, each officer\' individual performance and achievements, market factors and the recommendations management. fiscal year , executive officers were eligible receive grants stock options under the Plan. addition, executive officers were eligible participate the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan. During fiscal year , all the executive officers the Company received new option grants under the Plan. The Options granted under the Plan were exercise price equal the fair market value the Common Stock the date grant and generally vest unequal increments over five-year period after grant, subject the participant\' continued employment with the Company. All options granted under the Plan expire ten years from the date grant, unless shorter term provided the option agreement the participant\' employment with the Company ends before the end such ten-year period. COMPENSATION THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER . Jobs, the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer, received $ for the services performed for the Company fiscal year . SECTION ( ) The Company intends that options granted under the Company\' stock option plans deductible the Company under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code , amended. MEMBERS THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE Edgar . Woolard, . (Chairman) Gareth . Chang PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedule The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - current report form - dated September , , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press release issued the public September , , regarding the Company\' settlement shareholder derivative action. current report form - dated July , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press release issued the public July , , reporting the Company\' plan repurchase shares its common stock. current report form - dated December , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the amendment the Company\' fiscal year end. The Company\' fiscal calendar was amended move the fiscal year end from the last Friday September the last Saturday September. ( ) Exhibits EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION Agreement and Plan Merger Among Apple Computer, Inc., Blackbird Acquisition Corporation and NeXT Software, Inc., dated December , . - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . 99K -Laws the Company, amended through October , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). - Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - ------------------------ * Notes appear pages - . EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , .). Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. 97K Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer Inc. 97K Registration Rights Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 99K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through October , . ** Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K-10A ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan. ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. - ** Amendment Employment Agreement, dated May , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. - ------------------------ ( ) Notes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. 96K** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ** Employment Agreement effective December , , between Registrant and John . Douglas III. ** Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan, amended through March , . ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Non-Employee Director Stock Plan. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Fred . Anderson. - ------------------------ * Notes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION 97K** Resignation Agreement dated September , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Jon Rubenstein. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Avie Tevanian. 99K** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . ** Director Stock Option Plan. 99K** Executive Officer Stock Plan, amended through October , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. 97K Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. - ------------------------ ( ) Notes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement NOTES ----- 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . NOTES ----- - - , Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , and , respectively, the - , - , Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , - . 96K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . NOTES ----- Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 97K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 99K Filed exhibit this Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , . - ------------------------ ( ) Financial Statement Schedule See Item ( )( ) this Form - . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 21st day December . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON ----------------------------------------- Fred . Anderson EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: NAME TITLE DATE ---- ----- ---- interim Chief Executive / / STEVEN . JOBS Officer and Director ------------------------------------------- (Principal Executive December , STEVEN . JOBS Officer) Executive Vice President / / FRED . ANDERSON and Chief Financial ------------------------------------------- Officer (Principal December , FRED . ANDERSON Financial Officer) / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL ------------------------------------------- Director December , WILLIAM . CAMPBELL / / GARETH . CHANG ------------------------------------------- Director December , GARETH . CHANG / / MILLARD . DREXLER ------------------------------------------- Director December , MILLARD . DREXLER NAME TITLE DATE ---- ----- ---- / / LAWRENCE . ELLISON ------------------------------------------- Director December , LAWRENCE . ELLISON / / EDGAR . WOOLARD, . ------------------------------------------- Director December , EDGAR . WOOLARD, . / / JEROME . YORK ------------------------------------------- Director December , JEROME . YORK ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT DIRECTORS Listed below are the Company\' directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. NAME POSITION WITH THE COMPANY AGE DIRECTOR SINCE - ---- ------------------------- -------- -------------- William . Campbell................. Director Gareth . Chang................... Director Millard . Drexler.................. Director Lawrence . Ellison................. Director Steven . Jobs...................... Director and interim Chief Executive Officer Edgar . Woolard, ................ Director Jerome . York...................... Director WILLIAM . CAMPBELL has been chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("INTUIT") since August . Since September , . Campbell has been acting Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors SanDisk Corporation and Great Plains Software. GARETH . . CHANG has served Chairman and Chief Executive Officer STAR since September . Prior joining STAR , . Chang was President Hughes Electronics International and Corporate Senior Vice President Hughes Electronics since . Previously, was Corporate Vice President McDonnell Douglas Corporation. currently executive director News Corp., and member the Advisory Council Nike Inc. MILLARD . DREXLER has been Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. since , and President the Gap, Inc. since . has also served the Chief Executive Officer the Gap Division since and the Chief Executive Officer Old Navy Inc. since . From served the Chief Operating Officer the Gap Division and from served the Chief Executive Officer Banana Republic, Inc. . Drexler currently director Restoration Hardware, Inc. LAWRENCE . ELLISON has been Chief Executive Officer and director Oracle Corporation ("ORACLE") since -founded Oracle May , and was President Oracle until June . . Ellison has been Chairman the Board Oracle since June . . Ellison also director SuperGen, Inc., Liberate Technologies, and Spring Group PLC. STEVEN . JOBS one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its interim Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. ("NEXT") and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. . Jobs currently director Gap Inc. EDGAR . WOOLARD, . retired Chairman the Board Directors . . DuPont Nemours & . ("DUPONT") October , having served Chariman since . remains director DuPont. Previously, held the positions President and Chief Executive Officer DuPont. currently director CITIGROUP, Inc. and DuPont. JEROME . YORK Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Corporation, private investment and consulting concern founded . Previously, was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation from September October . May , joined International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and served director IBM from January August . Prior joining IBM, . York served number executive positions Chrysler Corporation, including Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May May . also served director Chrysler Corporation from . . York also director Waste Management, Inc., MGM Grand, Inc., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. and National TechTeam, Inc. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled "DIRECTORS". FRED . ANDERSON, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ) joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ("ADP"), position held from August March . TIMOTHY . COOK, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations (age ) joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation ("COMPAQ"). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. NANCY . HEINEN, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ) joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . MITCHELL MANDICH, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales (age ) joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. . Mandich has also served the Company the position Vice President, North American Business Division. Prior joining the Company, . Mandich held the position Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Service with NeXT from December through February . JONATHAN RUBINSTEIN, Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated ("FIREPOWER"), from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. AVADIS TEVANIAN, ., ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. SINA TAMADDON, Senior Vice President, Service & Support (age ) joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. SECTION ( ) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company, the absence Form Form written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that, during fiscal year , its officers, directors and greater than ten percent beneficial owners complied with all applicable Section ( ) filing requirements. ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION INFORMATION REGARDING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, interim Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the "NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS"). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE SECURITIES RESTRICTED UNDERLYING ALL OTHER NAME AND FISCAL SALARY BONUS STOCK AWARDS OPTIONS COMPENSATION PRINCIPAL POSITION YEAR ($) ($) ($) (#) ($) - ------------------ -------- -------- -------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ANNUAL COMPENSATION LONG-TERM COMPENSATION Steven . Jobs...................... -- -- -- -- interim Chief Executive Officer -- -- -- -- -- -- -- , ( ) -- Fred . Anderson.................... , -- -- , , ( ) Executive Vice President , -- -- , ( ) , ( ) and Chief Financial Officer , -- , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Timothy . Cook..................... , -- -- , , ( ) Senior Vice President, , , ( ) -- , , ( ) Worldwide Operations -- -- -- -- -- Mitchell Mandich.................... , -- -- , , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- -- , ( ) , ( ) Worldwide Sales , , -- , ( )( ) , ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein................. , -- -- , , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- -- , ( ) , ( ) Hardware Engineering , , , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) - -------------------------- ( ) . Jobs was granted , stock options his capacity director the Company pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) Includes the replacement , , , and , options that were previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Mandich and Rubinstein, respectively, and canceled pursuant the December stock option exchange program. Other than the replacement options, Messrs. Anderson and Rubinstein were not granted any options during the fiscal year. ( ) Includes $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) For fiscal year , these amounts represent the value February , the Common Stock underlying the Performance Shares earned . Anderson and . Rubinstein under the terms the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan. . Anderson and . Rubinstein earned , and , performance shares, respectively. dividends were paid the Performance Shares. the last day fiscal year , . Anderson and . Rubistein held other Performance Shares restricted stock. ( ) Includes the replacement , , , and , options that were previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Mandich and Rubinstein respectively, and canceled pursuant the July stock option exchange program. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms its ( ) plan. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) connection with his employment, . Cook received one-time hiring bonus the amount $ , . ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms its ( ) plan. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms its ( ) plan. ( ) Includes , NeXT options that were converted into Apple options during fiscal year connection with Apple\' acquisition NeXT. ( ) Includes $ , from the disqualifying disposition the sale shares the Company stock acquired through the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR The following table provides information about option grants the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR INDIVIDUAL GRANTS ------------------------------------------------------------ NUMBER POTENTIAL REALIZABLE VALUE SECURITIES ASSUMED ANNUAL RATES UNDERLYING PERCENT TOTAL STOCK PRICE APPRECIATION FOR OPTIONS OPTIONS GRANTED EXERCISE OPTION TERM( ) GRANTED EMPLOYEES BASE EXPIRATION ----------------------------- NAME (#) FISCAL YEAR( ) PRICE ($/ )( ) DATE % ($) % ($) - ---- ---------- ---------------- --------------- ---------- ------------- ------------- Steven . Jobs............. -- % -- -- -- -- Fred . Anderson........... , % $ $ , , $ , , Timothy . Cook............ , % $ $ , , $ , , Mitchell Mandich........... , % $ $ , , $ , , Jonathan Rubinstein........ , % $ $ , $ , , - ------------------------ ( ) Based aggregate , , options granted all employees during fiscal year . Options typically vest four equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. ( ) All options were granted exercise price equal the fair market value based the closing market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market the date grant. ( ) Potential gains are net exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These amounts represent certain assumed rates appreciation only, based SEC rules, and not represent the Company\' estimate projection the price the Company\' stock the future. Actual gains, any, stock option exercises depend upon the actual future price Common Stock and the continued employment the option holders throughout the vesting period. Accordingly, the potential realizable values set forth this table may not achieved. OPTIONS EXERCISED AND YEAR-END OPTION HOLDINGS The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES NUMBER SECURITIES UNDERLYING UNEXERCISED VALUE UNEXERCISED - SHARES OPTIONS FISCAL YEAR-END THE-MONEY OPTIONS ACQUIRED VALUE (#) FISCAL YEAR-END ($)( ) EXERCISE REALIZED --------------------------- --------------------------- NAME (#) ($)( ) EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE - ---- ----------- --------- ----------- ------------- ----------- ------------- Steven . Jobs............... -- -- , , , , Fred . Anderson............. , , , , , , , , , Timothy Cook................. , , , , , , Mitchell Mandich............. , , , , , , , , , Jonathan Rubinstein.......... , , , , , , , , , - ------------------------ ( ) Market value underlying securities (based the fair market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market) the time exercise, minus the exercise price. ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. DIRECTOR COMPENSATION , the Company ended its practice paying cash retainers and fees directors, and approved the Apple Computer, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan (the "DIRECTOR PLAN"). The Director Plan was approved the shareholders April , and , shares have been reserved for issuance under the Director Plan. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board ("INITIAL OPTIONS"). the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock ("ANNUAL OPTIONS"). Initial Options vest and become exercisable equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. October , , there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION The current members the Board\' Compensation Committee are Messrs. Woolard and Chang, neither whom employee the Company. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee fiscal year . During fiscal year , executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. COMPANY STOCK PERFORMANCE The following graph shows five-year comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Composite Index (the " & ") and the & Computers (Hardware) Index (the "INDUSTRY INDEX"). The graph assumes $ was invested each the Common Stock, the & and the Industry Index September , . Data points the graph are annual. Note that historic stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN BASED UPON INITIAL INVESTMENT $ SEPTEMBER , WITH DIVIDENDS REINVESTED EDGAR REPRESENTATION DATA POINTS USED PRINTED GRAPHIC CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN BASED UPON INITIAL INVESTMENT $ SEPTEMBER , WITH DIVIDENDS REINVESTED Apple Computer Inc. & & Computers (Hardware) -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ -Sep- $ $ $ SOURCE: GEORGESON SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION INC. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The following table sets forth certain information November , (the "TABLE DATE") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. SECURITY OWNERSHIP DIRECTORS, NOMINEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS SHARES COMMON STOCK NAME BENEFICIAL OWNER BENEFICIALLY OWNED( ) - ------------------------ ---------------------- Fred . Anderson....................................... , ( ) William . Campbell.................................... , ( ) Gareth . . Chang..................................... , ( ) Timothy . Cook........................................ Millard . Drexler..................................... Lawrence . Ellison.................................... , ( ) Steven . Jobs......................................... , ( ) Mitchell Mandich....................................... , ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein.................................... , ( ) Edgar . Woolard, ................................... , Jerome . York......................................... , ( ) All executive officers and directors group ( persons)......................................... , ( ) - ------------------------ ( ) All amounts listed this table represent less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell, Chang, Ellison, Jobs and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Constitutes , shares Common Stock which . Mandich has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held executive officers and directors and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ', 'item 13. ': 'ARRANGEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The Company entered into employment agreement with . Anderson effective April , , pursuant which serves Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer the Company. Pursuant his agreement, . Anderson entitled annual base salary less than $ , . . Anderson\' employment terminated the Company without "Cause" any time during the five-year period following April , , will entitled receive lump sum severance payment equal the sum his annual base salary and target bonus, any. . Anderson\' agreement generally defines "Cause" include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his employment duties. February , . Cook joined the Company Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. Under the terms his employment, entitled annual base salary less than $ , . addition, . Cook received one-time hiring bonus the amount $ , and stock option grant with sell-back provision. The sell-back provision provides that during the five-day period starting the second anniversary his commencement employment, may elect sell all his remaining vested and unvested options and shares (obtained through the exercise such options) back the Company for the sum $ million less any profits . Cook has realized date through the exercise and sale such options (the "Sell-back Option"). During fiscal , . Cook realized net profits from the exercise and sale his options excess $ million. The Sell-back Option has future effect. . Cook\' employment terminated the Company without "Cause" during the first two years his employment, will entitled receive amount equal $ , minus the total base salary has received since the start his employment. CHANGE CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS--STOCK OPTIONS the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Stock Option Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Stock Option Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted Timothy . Cook, Nancy . Heinen, Mitchell Mandich and Sina Tamaddon provide that the event there "change control", defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control", their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason", those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control", shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. CHANGE CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS--RETENTION AGREEMENTS The Company was party retention agreements (the "RETENTION AGREEMENTS") with three executive officers (Messrs. Anderson, Rubinstein and Tevanian) providing for certain cash payments the event termination employment following change control the Company. March, , Messrs. Anderson, Rubinstein and Tevanian agreed waive any rights they may have under the Retention Agreements. exchange, all options previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Rubinstein and Tevanian were amended include "change control" provision similar the provision contained option grants Messrs. Cook, Mandich, Tamaddon and . Heinen. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS connection with the Company\' use aircraft transport its executive officers, the Company paid approximately $ , during fiscal year Wing & Prayer, company wholly-owned Lawrence . Ellison. REPORT THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE THE BOARD DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The Company\' executive compensation program administered the Compensation Committee the Board Directors (the "COMMITTEE"). The role the Committee, which comprised two outside non-employee directors, review and approve the base salaries, bonuses, stock options and other compensation the executive officers and management-level employees the Company. The Committee also administers the Company\' stock option plans and makes grants executive officers under the Executive Officer Stock Plan (the " Plan"). The Company\' executive compensation program utilizes Company performance, individual performance and increase stockholder value over time determinants executive pay levels. These principles are intended motivate executive officers improve the financial position the Company, hold executives accountable for the performance the organizations for which they are responsible, attract key executives into the service the Company and create value for the Company\' shareholders. The compensation for executive officers based two elements: Cash compensation and equity-based compensation. CASH COMPENSATION The Company reviews executive compensation surveys both the computer industry and general industry ensure that the total cash compensation provided executive officers and senior management remains competitive level enable the Company attract and retain management personnel with the talents and skills required meet the challenges highly competitive industry. The compensation executive officers, other than . Jobs, interim Chief Executive Officer, reviewed annually the Committee. BONUSES For fiscal year , the Compensation Committee approved the FY99 Vice Presidents and Directors Incentive Bonus Plan (the "BONUS PLAN"), under which cash bonuses for employees the level director and above were determined based specified revenue, unit shipments and profit targets for the Company. Because the Company did not achieve the metrics specified the Bonus Plan, payments were made thereunder. Executive officers and members the Board Directors are not eligible participate the Bonus Plan. EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION fiscal year , the Compensation Committee emphasized equity-based compensation, principally the form options, the cornerstone the Company\' executive compensation program. Equity awards are typically set the Compensation Committee based industry surveys, each officer\' individual performance and achievements, market factors and the recommendations management. fiscal year , executive officers were eligible receive grants stock options under the Plan. addition, executive officers were eligible participate the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan. During fiscal year , all the executive officers the Company received new option grants under the Plan. The Options granted under the Plan were exercise price equal the fair market value the Common Stock the date grant and generally vest unequal increments over five-year period after grant, subject the participant\' continued employment with the Company. All options granted under the Plan expire ten years from the date grant, unless shorter term provided the option agreement the participant\' employment with the Company ends before the end such ten-year period. COMPENSATION THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER . Jobs, the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer, received $ for the services performed for the Company fiscal year . SECTION ( ) The Company intends that options granted under the Company\' stock option plans deductible the Company under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code , amended. MEMBERS THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE Edgar . Woolard, . (Chairman) Gareth . Chang PART ', 'item 14. ': 'EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedule The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - current report form - dated September , , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press release issued the public September , , regarding the Company\' settlement shareholder derivative action. current report form - dated July , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press release issued the public July , , reporting the Company\' plan repurchase shares its common stock. current report form - dated December , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the amendment the Company\' fiscal year end. The Company\' fiscal calendar was amended move the fiscal year end from the last Friday September the last Saturday September. ( ) Exhibits EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION Agreement and Plan Merger Among Apple Computer, Inc., Blackbird Acquisition Corporation and NeXT Software, Inc., dated December , . - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . 99K -Laws the Company, amended through October , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). - Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - ------------------------ * Notes appear pages - . EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , .). Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. 97K Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer Inc. 97K Registration Rights Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 99K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through October , . ** Senior Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K-10A ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan. ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. - ** Amendment Employment Agreement, dated May , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. - ------------------------ ( ) Notes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. 96K** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ** Employment Agreement effective December , , between Registrant and John . Douglas III. ** Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan, amended through March , . ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Non-Employee Director Stock Plan. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Fred . Anderson. - ------------------------ * Notes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION 97K** Resignation Agreement dated September , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Jon Rubenstein. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Avie Tevanian. 99K** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . ** Director Stock Option Plan. 99K** Executive Officer Stock Plan, amended through October , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. 97K Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. - ------------------------ ( ) Notes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement NOTES ----- 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . NOTES ----- - - , Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , and , respectively, the - , - , Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , - . 96K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . NOTES ----- Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 97K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 99K Filed exhibit this Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , . - ------------------------ ( ) Financial Statement Schedule See Item ( )( ) this Form - . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 21st day December . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON ----------------------------------------- Fred . Anderson EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: NAME TITLE DATE ---- ----- ---- interim Chief Executive / / STEVEN . JOBS Officer and Director ------------------------------------------- (Principal Executive December , STEVEN . JOBS Officer) Executive Vice President / / FRED . ANDERSON and Chief Financial ------------------------------------------- Officer (Principal December , FRED . ANDERSON Financial Officer) / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL ------------------------------------------- Director December , WILLIAM . CAMPBELL / / GARETH . CHANG ------------------------------------------- Director December , GARETH . CHANG / / MILLARD . DREXLER ------------------------------------------- Director December , MILLARD . DREXLER NAME TITLE DATE ---- ----- ---- / / LAWRENCE . ELLISON ------------------------------------------- Director December , LAWRENCE . ELLISON / / EDGAR . WOOLARD, . ------------------------------------------- Director December , EDGAR . WOOLARD, . / / JEROME . YORK ------------------------------------------- Director December , JEROME . YORK ', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}