{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple" the "Company") was incorporated under the laws the State California January , . The Company designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops and markets line portable digital music players along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party music and audio books. The Company\' products and services include the Macintosh line desktop and notebook computers, the iPod digital music player, the Xserve server and Xserve RAID storage products, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the Mac operating system, the online iTunes Music Store, portfolio peripherals that support and enhance the Macintosh and iPod product lines, and variety other service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its own retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers and value added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party products that are compatible with the Company\' Macintosh and iPod product lines, including computer printers and printing supplies, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, personal digital assistants, iPod accessories, and various other computing products and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company\' fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented this Form - based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Business Strategy Apple committed bringing the best personal computing and music experience students, educators, creative professionals, businesses and consumers around the world through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals and Internet offerings. The Company\' business strategy leverages its unique ability, through the design and development its own operating system, hardware and many software applications and technologies, bring its customers around the world meaningful new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration and innovative industrial design. The Company believes continual investment research and development critical facilitate innovation new and improved products and technologies. Besides updates its existing line personal computers and related software, services, and peripherals, the Company continues capitalize the convergence digital consumer electronics and the computer creating product innovations like the iPod and iTunes Music Store. The Company has also invested new product areas such rack-mount servers, RAID storage systems and wireless technologies. The Company\' strategy also includes expanding its distribution network effectively reach more its targeted customers. Digital Hub The Company believes personal computing era which the personal computer functions for both professionals and consumers the digital hub for advanced new digital devices such the Company\' iPod digital music players, personal digital assistants, cellular phones, digital still and movie cameras, ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' and DVD players, and other consumer electronic devices. The attributes the personal computer, including its ability run complex applications, possess high quality user interface, contain large and relatively inexpensive storage, and easily connect the Internet multiple ways and varying speeds, can individually add value these devices and interconnect them well. Apple the only company the personal computer industry that controls the design and development the entire personal computer\x97from the hardware and operating system sophisticated applications. Apple provides innovative industrial design, intuitive ease- -use, and built- networking, graphics, and multimedia capabilities. Thus, the Company uniquely positioned offer integrated digital hub products and solutions. Apple develops products and technologies that adhere many industry standards order provide optimized user experience through interoperability with peripherals and devices from other companies. Apple has played role the development, enhancement, promotion, and use numerous these industry standards, many which are discussed below. Expanded Distribution The Company believes high quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons, who can convey the value the Company\' products and services, critical attracting and retaining customers. such, addition expanding its indirect distribution channels, the Company has expanded its product distribution strategy include its own retail locations, Apple online stores worldwide, and the Apple Sales Consultant Program. The Company sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, education customers, and businesses through its retail stores the . and internationally, through one its online stores around the world. The Company has also invested programs like the Apple Sales Consultant Program, which designed enhance reseller sales the placement Apple badged employees selected third-party reseller locations. The Company believes enabling direct interface with its targeted end customer provides efficient means effectively demonstrate the advantages the Company\' Macintosh and other products over those its competitors. For certain its consumer electronic products, including the iPod product family, the Company has also significantly expanded the points distribution order make available its products locations where its customers shop. Since inception its retail initiative , the Company has opened retail stores the . and international stores Tokyo and Osaka, Japan through the end fiscal year . During the first quarter , the Company anticipates opening additional stores, and expects exit the calendar year approximately stores. The Company has typically located its stores high traffic locations quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. Approximately half the stores expected open during the first quarter are the new "mini" store design, which the Company\' smallest store format date, allowing them placed variety new locations introduce the Company\' products even more customers. The Company also opened its third international store London, England during the first quarter . One the goals the retail initiative bring new customers the Company and expand its installed base through sales both first time personal computer buyers and those switching the Macintosh platform from competing operating system platforms. operating its own stores and building them desirable high traffic locations, the Company able better control the customer retail experience and attract new Apple customers. The stores are designed simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing personal computing products. that end, retail store configurations have evolved into various sizes order accommodate market demands. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice and certain hardware support services. The stores offer wide selection third-party hardware and software products selected complement the Company\' own products. Additionally, the stores provide forum which the Company able present entire computing solutions users areas such digital photography, digital video, music, children\' software, and home and small business computing. Apple retail stores host customer events and free ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' classes, including the popular "Getting Started" class, and have brought back the concept customer service with innovations like the Genius Bar. Education For more than years, the Company has focused the use technology education and has been committed delivering tools help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement, especially when used support collaboration, information access, and the expression and representation student thought and ideas. The Company creates solutions that enable new modes curriculum delivery, better ways conducting research, and opportunities for professional development faculty, students, and staff. range products and services designed the Company help schools maximize their investments technology. This manifested many the Company\' products and services that are designed meet the needs education customers, including the eMac\x99 and the iBook®, video editing solutions, wireless networking capabilities, student information systems, one- -one learning solutions, and high-quality curriculum and professional development solutions. Creative Professionals Creative professionals constitute one the Company\' most important markets for both hardware and software products. This market also important many third-party developers who provide Macintosh compatible hardware and software solutions. Creative customers utilize the Company\' products for variety creative activities including digital video and film production and editing; digital video and film special effects, compositing, and titling; digital still photography; graphic design, publishing, and print production; music performance and production; audio production and sound design; and web design, development and administration. The Company designs its high-end hardware solutions, including servers, desktops, and portable Macintosh systems, incorporate the power, expandability, and features desired creative professionals. Additionally, the Company\' operating system, Mac , incorporates powerful graphics and audio technologies and features developer tools optimize system and application performance when running powerful creative solutions provided the Company third-party developers. The Company also offers various software solutions meet the needs its creative customers, many which are described below. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan and excludes revenue from the Company\' own retail stores Japan, which included the Company\' Retail segment. The Retail segment currently operates Apple-owned retail stores the ., Japan and England. Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Segment Operating Performance," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Hardware Products The Company offers range personal computing products including desktop and notebook personal computers, related devices and peripherals, and various third-party hardware products. All the Company\' Macintosh® products utilize PowerPC® RISC-based microprocessors. The Company\' entire line Macintosh systems, excluding servers and storage systems, features the Company\' Mac ® ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Version "Panther" and iLife® suite software for digital photography, music, movies, and music creation. Power Mac® The Power Mac line desktop personal computers targeted business and professional users and designed meet the speed, expansion and networking needs the most demanding Macintosh user. Powered the PowerPC processor, the Power Mac utilizes -bit processing technology for memory expansion 8GB, and advanced -bit computation while also running existing -bit applications natively. The Power Mac product line comes four processor configurations\x97single 8GHz, dual 8GHz, dual 0GHz and dual 5GHz. All Power Mac desktops feature SuperDrive\x99 and either the NVIDIA GeForceFX Ultra the ATI Radeon graphics card. addition, all Power Mac desktops deliver connectivity and high-performance input output ( ), including Gigabit Ethernet, FireWire® and FireWire ports, USB ports, optical digital audio input and output, built- support for Mbps AirPort® Extreme wireless networking, and optional Bluetooth connectivity. Xserve ® and Xserve RAID Storage System Xserve, the Company\' first rack-mount server product, was designed for simple setup and remote management intensive applications such digital video, high-resolution digital imagery, and large databases. January , the Company announced Xserve , which available with either single dual GHz PowerPC processor. Xserve includes system controller with 8GB PC3200 error correcting code memory; three hot-plug Serial ATA drive modules that deliver 750GB storage; and dual -board Gigabit Ethernet for high-performance networking. January , the Company also introduced its Xserve RAID storage system, high-availability rack storage system, along with support for Windows and Linux-based computing environments. October , the Company updated its Xserve RAID storage system deliver terabytes storage capacity and also expanded support for heterogeneous environments. The dual independent RAID controllers with 512MB cache per controller offer sustained throughput over 380MBps\x97high enough support two streams uncompressed -bit video editing using protected RAID level . PowerBook ® The PowerBook family portable computers designed meet the mobile computing needs professionals and advanced consumer users. April , the Company updated its PowerBook notebooks with faster PowerPC processors. Both the -inch and -inch PowerBook offer GHz PowerPC processor, available SuperDrive and the ATI Mobility Radeon graphics processor. The -inch PowerBook features GHz PowerPC processor, available SuperDrive, and NVIDIA GeForce Go5200 graphics. Every PowerBook notebook comes with built- AirPort Extreme wireless networking, internal Bluetooth module for wireless connectivity, well full complement ports including Firewire , USB ., built- 56K modem and Ethernet ( 100BASE- ), for connectivity wide range peripherals. The -inch and -inch PowerBook models also include built- Gigabit Ethernet and Firewire . iMac® The iMac line desktop computers targeted consumer and education markets. August , the Company introduced the iMac® , featuring the PowerPC processor and design that integrates the entire computer into the flat panel display. The line offers - -inch active matrix widescreen LCDs and PowerPC processors running GHz. The -inch models come with either GHz PowerPC processor and SuperDrive, GHz PowerPC processor and Combo drive. The -inch model has GHz PowerPC processor and SuperDrive. The iMac offers MHz front-side bus, MHz DDR memory expandable 2GB, AGP graphics and rpm Serial ATA drives holding 250GB. The iMac comes standard with NVIDIA graphics with dedicated video memory. The iMac desktops offer total five USB ports (three USB ) and two ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' FireWire® ports, optional internal Bluetooth module, built- antenna and card slot support optional AirPort Extreme Card for Mbps 11g wireless networking, and also includes built- Ethernet ( 100BASE- ) and 56K modem. eMac\x99 The eMac, which targeted primarily the Company\' education and consumer customers, features PowerPC processor, high resolution -inch flat cathode ray tube display, and preserves the all- -one compact design the original iMac favored many the Company\' education and consumer customers. April , the Company updated its eMac, which now has suggested retail price starting $ and available with SuperDrive for suggested retail price starting $ . The eMac offers PowerPC processors running GHz, MHz DDR memory, ATI Radeon graphics and USB connectivity peripherals. iBook® The iBook designed meet the portable computing needs education and consumer users. October , the Company upgraded its iBook® line include faster PowerPC processors running GHz, built- AirPort Extreme Mpbs 11g wireless networking and available slot-load SuperDrive. The -inch model features GHz PowerPC processor and slot-load Combo drive, while the -inch models include 33GHz processor and either Combo SuperDrive optical drive. All iBook models offer full complement ports including FireWire , USB , built- 56K modem and Ethernet ( 100BASE- ), well optional internal wireless Bluetooth module, for connectivity wide range peripherals. Music Products and Services The Company offers its iPod® line digital music players and related accessories Macintosh and Windows users. The Company also provides online service distribute third-party music and audio books through its iTunes® Music Store. Net sales iPods and other music products and services generated year-over-year revenue growth % and accounted for % the Company\' total net sales fiscal . iPod ® July , the Company introduced the fourth generation the iPod, the Company\' portable digital music player, featuring Apple\' patent pending click wheel, which combines touch-sensitive wheel with five push buttons for one handed navigation, and hours battery life. The iPod features Apple\' patent pending Auto-Sync technology that automatically downloads entire digital music library onto the iPod and keeps - -date whenever plugged into Macintosh Windows computer using FireWire USB. The iPod also features Shuffle Songs, which randomly plays songs selected playlist across the entire library. All iPods work with Apple\' iTunes digital music management software either Macintosh Windows computer. The iPod available 20GB and 40GB models. The iPod\' functionality extends beyond playing music and listening audio books. Other key capabilities include data storage, calendar and contact information utility, and selection games. With the addition third-party iPod peripherals, the capabilities certain iPods can enhanced include voice recording and photo downloading directly from certain digital cameras. Along with the iPod, the Company has developed seamless end- -end music solution with the Company\' iTunes software and the iTunes Music Store ® , service that consumers may use purchase third-party music and audio books over the Internet. The Company has entered into strategic alliance with Hewlett-Packard Company ( ), which provides for -branded digital music player based the iPod, the preinstallation iTunes software \' consumer PCs and notebooks and access the iTunes Music Store. The Company has also entered into alliance with BMW Group for the BMW iPod Adapter, device that offers seamless integration the iPod and certain BMW automobiles North America. addition, the Company formed alliance with ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Founder Technology Group Corporation, supplier PCs the Chinese market, that provides for the preinstallation iTunes all Founder Technology Windows-based PCs. similar alliance was formed with Synnex Technology International Corporation, Taiwan-based wholesaler and distributor personal computers, for the preinstallation iTunes its Windows-based laptop and desktop PCs. October , the Company introduced the iPod Special Edition part strategic alliance with the musical band, , and Universal Music Group. The iPod holds , songs, features black enclosure with red click wheel and custom engraving band member signatures. iPod® photo October , the Company introduced iPod® photo. The iPod photo holds digital photos alongside the music library and displays them its high-resolution color screen, which allows users scroll through the photo library almost instantly using iPod\' patent pending click wheel. iPod photo can auto sync music and photos with Macintosh Windows-based computer. The iPod photo also allows users simultaneously play music and view photo slideshows the iPod, well televisions and projectors. The iPod photo comes 40GB 60GB models and has extended battery life that gives users hours music playback hours slideshows. The iPod photo can hold , digital photos , digital songs. iPod ® mini January , the Company introduced the iPod mini. Smaller and lighter than the iPod, the iPod mini has storage capacity 4GB and holds , songs, utilizes the patent pending click wheel and encased anodized aluminum case available selection five colors: silver, gold, pink, blue green. The iPod mini retains the same user interface the iPod and works seamlessly with the Company\' iTunes Music Store® and the iTunes software for buying, managing and listening digital music either Macintosh Windows-based computer. iTunes Music Store ® The Company\' iTunes Music Store, available for both Windows-based and Macintosh computers, online music download store that allows customers find, purchase, and download third-party digital music and audio books. Users can easily search the contents the music store catalog locate works title, artist, album, browse the entire contents the store genre and artist. Users can also listen free -second preview any song the store. Since April , the iTunes Music Store has been available . customers. similar store became available the ., France and Germany June and was followed the October launch English language music store covering nine additional European countries. The Company has also announced its intention open iTunes Music Store Canada during fiscal . The iTunes Music Store fully integrated directly into the latest version the iTunes software, allowing customers preview, purchase, download, organize, share, and transfer their digital music iPod using single software application. Further discussion the iTunes software may found below under the heading "Software Products and Computer Technologies." Requiring subscription fee, the iTunes Music Store with iTunes software offers customers broad range personal rights the third-party content they have purchased, including playing songs five personal computers, burning single song onto CDs unlimited number times, burning the same playlist seven times, listening their music unlimited number iPods, and using songs certain media applications such iPhoto, iMovie, and iDVD. The iTunes Music Store also features availability audio books for purchase directly from the iTunes Music Store. Additional features currently available within the . iTunes Music Store include gift certificates that can sent via -mail, prepaid gift cards, "allowance" feature that enables users automatically deposit ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' funds into iTunes Music Store account every month; and "Radio Charts," feature that allows users search and buy the top songs played radio stations major . markets. Peripheral Products The Company sells certain associated Apple-branded computer hardware peripherals, including iSight\x99 digital video cameras, and range high quality flat panel TFT active-matrix digital color displays. The Company also sells variety third-party Macintosh compatible hardware products directly end users through both its retail and online stores, including computer printers and printing supplies, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, personal digital assistants, and various other computing products and supplies. iSight \x99 The Company\' iSight digital video camera enables video conferencing over broadband. iSight small, portable aluminum alloy camera with all audio, video and power provided single FireWire cable. iSight designed center-mounted the top computer screen and uses its integrated tilt and rotate mechanism easily position the camera for natural, face- -face video conferencing. iSight features autofocusing autoexposure lens which captures high-quality pictures and full-motion video. With its -board processor, iSight automatically adjusts color, white balance, sharpness and contrast provide high-quality images with accurate color reproduction most lighting conditions. iSight also includes dual-element microphone that suppresses ambient noise for clear digital audio. Displays June , the Company announced family widescreen flat panel displays featuring the -inch Apple Cinema Display, widescreen active-matrix LCD with - - pixel resolution, -inch widescreen Apple Cinema Display with - - pixel resolution and -inch widescreen Apple Cinema Display with - - pixel resolution. The displays feature dual FireWire and dual USB ports built into the display and use the industry standard DVI interface for pure digital connection with the Company\' latest Power Mac and PowerBook systems. The Cinema Displays feature aluminum design with very thin bezel, suspended aluminum stand that allows viewing angle adjustment. Software Products and Computer Technologies The Company offers range software products for education, creative, consumer and business customers, including Mac , the Company\' proprietary operating system software for the Macintosh; server software and related solutions; professional application software; and consumer, education and business oriented application software. Operating System Software The Company released Mac version (code-named "Panther"), the Company\' current version Mac , October . Panther incorporates features including new version Finder\x99; Exposé\x99, way organize windows and instantly see all open windows once; FileVault, feature that secures the contents home directory with -bit AES encryption; iChat ; and enhanced support for use Windows-based networks. June , the Company previewed Mac version (code-named "Tiger"), the fifth major version Mac that expected ship the first half calendar . Tiger will contain new features including Spotlight, new way instantly find any file, document information Macintosh created any application the Macintosh; Safari\x99 RSS, new version Apple\' web browser that incorporates instant access Really Simple Syndication (RSS) data feeds the web; Dashboard, new way instantly access "Widgets," new collection desktop mini application accessories, including datebook, stock ticker, calculator, address book and iTunes controller; and new version iChat instant messaging client with multi-person audio and video conferencing interface. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Server Software and Server Solutions October , the Company began shipping the current version its server operating system, Mac Server version (code-named "Panther Server"). This release integrates open source and open standards server software with easy- -use management tools that make easy serve Macintosh, Windows and Linux clients. Features Panther Server include Server Admin tool for easily setting multiple servers; Open Directory for hosting scalable LDAP directory and Kerberos authentication services; Samba for providing login and home directory support for Windows clients; and the JBoss application server for running powerful J2EE applications. June , the Company previewed Mac Server version (code-named "Tiger Server"), the next major release the Company\' UNIX-based server operating system that deploys open source solutions for Macintosh, Windows and Linux clients. Tiger Server includes native support for -bit applications; iChat Server deploy private, encrypted communications within organization; and migration tools make easy upgrade from legacy Windows servers Mac Server. June , the Company introduced Apple Remote Desktop\x99 , the second generation the Company\' asset management, software distribution and help desk support software. Along with improvements screen sharing performance, Apple Remote Desktop includes more than features for centrally managing Mac systems. Apple Remote Desktop can perform wide range desktop management tasks such installing operating system and application software, running hardware and software inventory reports and executing commands one more remote Mac systems the network. Remote software installation tools allow professionals install single multiple software packages immediately specific dates and times. Comprehensive hardware and software reports based more than system information attributes allow administrators keep track their Mac systems. addition, built- real-time screen sharing enables help desk professionals provide online assistance observing and controlling the desktops any remote Macintosh Virtual Network Computing-enabled computer, including Windows and Linux systems. Xsan, the Company\' enterprise-class Storage Area Network (SAN) file system, was introduced beta version April and expected available for general release the Fall . Xsan -bit cluster file system for Mac that enables organizations consolidate storage resources and provide multiple computers with concurrent file-level read write access shared volumes over Fibre Channel. Advanced features such metadata controller failover and Fibre Channel multipathing ensure high availability; file-level locking allows multiple systems read and write concurrently the same volume which ideal for complex workflows; bandwidth reservation provides for effective ingestion bandwidth-intensive data streams, such high resolution video; and flexible volume management results more efficient use storage resources. Since Xsan interoperable with ADIC\' StorNext File System, can used heterogeneous environments that include Windows, UNIX and Linux server operating system platforms. Professional Application Software Final Cut Pro® , the latest version the Company\' video editing software, was introduced April and features real-time performance high-quality native DVCPRO , high-definition video format, addition real-time support for digital video ( ) and standard definition ( ) formats. Final Cut Pro supports native DVCPRO editing with recompression image degradation and enables preview monitoring through the computer\' DVI display output via the Digital Cinema Desktop feature. Final Cut Pro \' support native DVCPRO makes media conversion unnecessary, preserving the full quality the camera original. Final Cut Pro includes precision, non-modal editing and trimming tools; powerful interface customization features; advanced real-time color correction and image control; and enhanced audio editing capabilities with multi-track audio mixing and multi-channel audio output. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' April , the Company announced DVD Studio Pro® , the latest version the Company\' professional DVD authoring application. DVD Studio Pro features Alpha Transitions, which are QuickTime® based movie transitions that may used segues between DVD menus and DVD slide show transitions, and new Graphical View for easy visualization project\' entire flow storyboard environment. Graphical View makes easy see the relationships between menus, tracks, slideshows, stories and scripts. DVD Studio Pro also includes Compressor , the latest version the Company\' digital media encoding and compression software that provides high-quality constant and variable bit rate MPEG- encoding. addition and , DVD Studio Pro now provides the ability scale and encode directly MPEG- all one step. August , the Company began shipping Motion, motion graphic design and production application. Motion features interactive animation text, graphics and video, with real-time previewing multiple filters and particle effects. Motion introduces "Behaviors," procedural animation technology that allows for the adding natural looking movement type and graphics, such gravity and wind, without the use complex keyframes. Motion\' "Interactive Dashboard" gives users access contextual, semi-transparent floating palette that provides the tools and slider parameters for objects being manipulated screen. Motion\' "Project Pane" allows users view and manage all filters, Behaviors, masks and other properties applied all objects and layers objects within project. August , the Company introduced Production Suite, which combines the latest versions Final Cut Pro , DVD Studio Pro and Apple Motion into software suite for film and video production that delivers real-time production tools one comprehensive and integrated package. Production Suite provides integrated workflow environment where content that updated one the applications the suite automatically updated the other applications. Shake® , upgrade the Company\' compositing and visual effects software designed for large format film and video productions was introduced April . Shake features shape-based morphing and warping tools for advanced compositing and "shape shifting" special effects. Morphing and warping further enhance Shake\' visual effects tools, including layering, tracking, rotoscoping, painting and color correction. Shake also improves upon the Shake Qmaster network render manager that can now handle distributed rendering tasks for both Shake and Alias Systems Corp.\' Maya product, allowing for distribution rendering tasks across cluster servers computers. Logic® Pro , introduced the Company September actively used musicians around the world and professionals music production, film scoring, and audio post-production facilities. combines digital music composition, notation and audio production facilities one comprehensive product and includes software instruments such Sculpture, component-modeling based synthesizer; UltraBeat, drum synthesizer with built- step sequencer; and digital signal processing (DSP) plug-ins including Guitar Amp Pro, full-featured guitar amplifier simulator. Along with over workflow enhancements, mastering plug-ins and support for Apple Loops, Logic Pro debuts distributed audio processing, technology which allows audio pros tap into number Macintosh systems expand available DSP power via Ethernet network. Consumer, Education and Business Oriented Application Software January , the Company introduced iLife® \' , the next generation suite its digital lifestyle applications, which features iPhoto®, iMovie®, iDVD®, iTunes® software, and introduced GarageBand\x99, music creation software application. All these iLife applications come preinstalled the Company\' Macintosh systems, excluding servers and storage systems. Burning DVDs with iDVD requires Macintosh system configured with SuperDrive. iTunes® software, available for both Macintosh and Windows-based computers, lets users create and manage their own digital music library. iTunes organizes music using searching, browsing and playlist features and supports automatic synchronization with the music stored iPod. iTunes supports AAC ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' and MP3 encoding from audio CDs, provides the ability burn custom playlists CDs and MP3 CDs, and allows for music sharing between networked computers. October , the Company\' newest version, iTunes , included support for copying photos iPod photo. Since April , the Company\' iTunes software has been integrated with the Company\' iTunes Music Store® facilitate the sale third-party music and audio books. Further discussion the iTunes Music Store may found above under the heading "Music Products and Services." iMovie® the Company\' consumer digital video editing software for creation home and classroom movies. iMovie features enhanced user interface, improved audio editing capabilities, enhanced controls for titling and transitions, and added special effects. Users may edit and trim audio and video clips the enhanced timeline with click-and-drag editing and even select and edit multiple clips simultaneously. With graphical audio waveforms and live audio scrubbing, users can locate specific edit points audio tracks, and alignment guides make easy precisely sync video and audio. iDVD® consumer oriented software that makes easy turn iMovie files, QuickTime files and digital pictures into DVDs that can played most consumer DVD players. iDVD simplifies DVD authoring including professionally designed themes and drag-and-drop simplicity. iDVD® includes themes and professional effects that allow users use photos and movies buttons, backgrounds and menus. Movies from iMovie, photos from iPhoto and music from either iTunes GarageBand can added directly DVD via the media browser, and enhanced photo slideshows can include cinematic transitions and iTunes playlists. The DVD Map provides overview entire DVD project and instant accessibility all project elements. GarageBand\x99, the Company\' consumer oriented music creation software, allows users play, record and create music using simple interface. With GarageBand, recorded performances, digital audio and looping tracks can arranged and edited create songs. GarageBand comes with more than software instruments, pre-recorded audio loops for making complete songs backing tracks, pro-quality effects presets for mixing, and vintage amplifier sounds for the guitar. The Company also offers three different Jam Packs, which provide additional software instruments and loops that enhance the use GarageBand create and record music. iPhoto® consumer oriented digital photo software that makes easy import, edit, save, share, and print digital photos, well organize and manage entire digital photo collection containing thousands photos. Users are able view their photos full-screen; use the slide show feature accompanied their favorite music; automatically create custom web pages their photos; email photos friends and family; order professionally-processed prints and enlargements online; easily design and order custom-printed, linen-covered hard bound photo books online. Customers numerous countries can order prints, enlargements, and photo books directly from within iPhoto. iPhoto® has features that allow users scroll through thousands photos seconds easily find particular photo, contains Smart Albums which automatically organizes photos based date, keyword the user\' own rating, and has controls for rotating, rating and deleting photos. Final Cut® Express, based Final Cut Pro, enables small business users, educators, students and advanced hobbyists perform professional-quality digital video editing. January , the Company introduced Final Cut Express , which features Extreme for real-time compositing and effects, enhanced user interface, real-time color correction tools and enhanced audio editing capabilities. Logic® Express , introduced the Company September , streamlined version Logic Pro that provides basic set professional tools compose and produce music for students, educators and advanced hobbyists. Logic Express comes with support for projects from GarageBand offering users smooth migration path high-end audio production. Keynote\x99 the Company\' presentation software that gives users the ability create high-quality presentations. Designed easy use, Keynote includes professionally designed themes, advanced ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' typography, professional-quality image resizing, animated charts and tables that can created quickly, and cinematic-quality transitions. Keynote imports and exports PowerPoint, QuickTime, and PDF files simplify the creation and sharing presentations. AppleWorks® integrated productivity application that incorporates word processing, page layout, image manipulation, spreadsheets, databases and presentations single application. Intended easy- -use product for the Company\' consumer and education customers, AppleWorks makes simple create professional-looking documents the classroom and home. FileMaker, Inc., wholly owned subsidiary the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes desktop-based database management application software for either Macintosh Windows-based computer. The FileMaker ® Pro database software and related products offer relational databases and desktop- -web publishing capabilities. March , the Company introduced FileMaker Pro with new architecture and enhancements ease- -use, customizability and developer productivity. FileMaker Pro has been redesigned using modern, streamlined relational architecture, which enables users simplify information management storing multiple tables within single file and includes the relationships graph feature which presents visual "map" the database and lets users create and modify relationships with simple click and drag tool. FileMaker Pro has also expanded its data capacity terabytes per file , times the former limit. Internet Software, Integration, and Services Apple\' Internet strategy focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\' product lines. The Company\' Internet products and technologies adhere many industry standards order provide optimized user experience through interoperability. easy use Internet Setup Assistant included with the Mac . Safari\x99 Safari, the Company\' Mac compatible web browser, capable loading web pages rapidly. Safari uses the advanced interface technologies underlying Mac and includes built- Google search; SnapBack\x99 instantly return search results; way name, organize and present bookmarks; tabbed browsing; and automatic "pop- " blocking. The Company also released software development kit that allows developers embed the Safari HTML rendering engine directly into their applications. Quicktime ® QuickTime, the Company\' multimedia software for either Macintosh Windows-based computer, features streaming live and stored video and audio over the Internet and playback high-quality audio and video computers. QuickTime includes the Instant- Streaming feature that eliminates buffer delays and provides users with the ability quickly and easily scrub through streaming media content locate and instantly view specific sections. addition, QuickTime running Mac now supports JPEG , the next generation JPEG standard that allows users capture still images higher quality and smaller file size than ever before. QuickTime also includes AAC, the standard MPEG- audio format. AAC the next generation professional-quality audio format that delivers superior sound quality with reduced file sizes. The Company also offers several other QuickTime products, including QuickTime Pro, suite software tools that allows creation and editing Internet-ready audio and video files and allows user add special effects and other features QuickTime movies; QuickTime Streaming Server which facilitates the broadcasting streaming digital video; and QuickTime Broadcaster that allows users quickly and easily produce professional-quality live events for online delivery. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' .Mac \x99 The Company\' Mac offering suite Internet services that for annual fee provides Macintosh users with powerful Internet tools Mac features email service with IMAP, POP web-based access and 125MB storage, iDisk Internet storage capacity additional 125MB, and hosting for personalized homepages and shared digital photo albums. Also included with Mac McAfee\' Virex anti-virus software and Backup, personal back- solution allowing users archive data their Internet storage, , DVD. Wireless Connectivity and Networking AirPort Extreme ® AirPort Extreme, introduced January , the Company\' next generation - wireless networking technology. AirPort Extreme based the 11g standard, which supports speeds Mbps, and fully compatible with most - devices which use the 11b standard. AirPort Extreme Base Stations can serve Macintosh and Windows users simultaneously, provide wireless bridging extend the range beyond just one base station, and support USB printer sharing allow multiple users wirelessly share USB printers connected directly the base station. AirPort® Express June , the Company introduced AirPort® Express, the first 11g mobile base station that can plugged directly into the wall for wireless Internet connections and USB printing. Airport Express also features analog and digital audio outputs that can connected stereo and AirTunes\x99 music networking software which works with iTunes, giving users way wirelessly stream iTunes music from their Macintosh Windows-based computer any room the house. AirPort Express features single piece design weighing ounces. Other Connectivity and Networking Solutions Mac includes capabilities for Bluetooth technology. Bluetooth industry standard for wirelessly connecting computers and peripherals that supports transmission data Mbps within range approximately feet. The Company\' Bluetooth technology for Mac lets customers wirelessly share files between Macintosh systems, synchronize and share contact information with Palm- based PDAs, and access the Internet through Bluetooth-enabled cell phones. Bluetooth USB adaptor can Bluetooth-enable any USB-based Macintosh computer running Mac version higher. The Company\' zero configuration networking technology based open Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Standard Protocols such , ARP and DNS and built into Mac . This technology uses industry standard networking protocols and zero configuration technology automatically discover and connect devices over any network, including Ethernet -based wireless networks like the Company\' AirPort products. The source code for this technology also includes software support UNIX, Linux, and Windows-based systems and devices. Major developers such Canon, Epson, Hewlett-Packard, Lexmark, Philips, Sybase, World Book and Xerox have announced support for this zero configuration networking technology broad range products including network printers, consumer electronics, enterprise database management and educational applications. The Company has made the source code for this technology freely available developers for use their network-enabled devices software applications. The Company developed FireWire ® technology, also referred IEEE , which high-speed serial technology for connecting digital devices such digital camcorders and cameras desktop and portable computers. With its high data-transfer speed and "hot plug-and-play" capability, FireWire has become established cross-platform industry standard for both consumers and professionals and the data interface choice for today\' digital video and audio devices, well external hard drives and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' other high-speed peripherals. FireWire currently included all Macintosh systems and data transfer technology utilized iPod. Product Support and Services AppleCare ® offers range support options for Apple customers. These options include assistance that built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, and the AppleCare Protection Plan. The AppleCare Protection Plan fee-based service that typically includes three years phone support and hardware repairs, dedicated web-based support resources, and user diagnostic tools. Specialized Education Products and Services The Company offers variety unique services and products its education customers, including separate online store for education customers offering special education price lists and promotions; special financing programs for - and higher education students, faculty, and staff; special edition its productivity software suite, AppleWorks, that compatible for both Macintosh and Windows-based computers; Wireless Mobile Labs that allows teachers and students share iBook computers, printer, and wireless network Internet connection stored cart for mobility between classrooms; and three special Digital Media Studio solutions designed for education, including one that integrated into mobile cart. Additionally, the Company offers one- -one ( : ) learning solutions, which are complete solution typically consisting iBook portable system for every student and teacher along with wireless network connected central server. The Company\' PowerSchool ® software product web-based student information system for - schools and school districts. PowerSchool software products give school administrators and teachers the ability easily and cost-effectively manage student records and give parents real-time access track their children\' performance via the Internet. PowerSchool offers the option remote hosting with application service provider model. Markets and Distribution The Company\' customers are primarily the education, creative, consumer, and business markets. Apple customers are attracted Macintosh computers for variety reasons, including the reduced amount training resulting from the Macintosh computer\' intuitive ease use, advanced graphics capabilities, industrial design features the Company\' hardware products, and ability Macintosh computers network and communicate with other computer systems and environments. Apple personal computers were first introduced education customers the late 1970s. Over % the Company\' net sales were through its . education channel, including sales elementary and secondary schools, higher education institutions and individual customers. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers. individual customer accounted for more than % net sales , . The Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, education customers, and businesses through its retail stores the . and internationally, through one its online stores around the world. Total direct and indirect sales transacted through the Company\' online stores totaled approximately $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion for fiscal years , and , respectively. Competition The Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. The market for the design, manufacture, and sale personal computers and related software and peripheral products highly competitive. This market continues characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software development, which have substantially increased the capabilities and applications these products, and have resulted the frequent introduction new products and significant price, ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' feature, and performance competition. Over the past several years, price competition the market for personal computers has been particularly intense. The Company\' competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins gain maintain market share. The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry-wide downward pressures gross margins. The principal competitive factors the market for personal computers include relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, availability software, product features, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, availability hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller, simpler, and less expensive than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result innovations competing platforms. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived functional and design advantages over competing platforms. The Company\' initial success with the development end- -end music offering, which includes the iTunes software, iTunes Music Store and iPod digital music player, has already encouraged significant competition this area from other companies, many whom have greater financial, marketing, and manufacturing resources than those the Company. The Company anticipates that competition will intensify requiring the Company respond hardware, software and content providers work more collaboratively offer integrated products that compete against the Company\' offerings. The Company believes maintains competitive advantage more effectively integrating the entire end- -end music solution, including the hardware (iPod), software (iTunes) and distribution third-party music content (iTunes Music Store). Raw Materials Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry wide availability constraints and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company did experience such delays during fiscal , which resulted the constrained availability certain products. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. The Company attempts mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and internal and external manufacturing schedules and levels. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company believes there are several component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\' business and financial position. this time, such vendors include Agere Systems, Inc., Ambit Microsystems Corporation, ASUSTeK Corporation, ATI Technologies, Inc., Broadcom Corporation, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (formerly the Semiconductor Products Segment Motorola, Inc.), Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Hon Hai Precision Industry ., Ltd., IBM Corporation, International Display Technology, Inventec Appliances Corporation, . Phillips ., Ltd., Matsushita, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, NVIDIA Corp., Portal Player, Inc., Quanta Computer, Inc., Samsung Electronics, Synaptics, Inc., and Toshiba Corporation. Research and Development Because the personal computer industry characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\' ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow competitive products and technology the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas hardware and peripherals, consumer electronic products, system software, applications software, networking and communications software and solutions, and the Internet. The Company may expand the range its product offerings and intellectual property through licensing and acquisition third-party business and technology. The Company\' research and development expenditures totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer systems, iPods, peripherals and software. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks and service marks the . and number foreign countries for "Apple," the Apple logo, "Macintosh," and numerous other trademarks and service marks. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third-parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms; however, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained all. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data The . represents the Company\' largest geographic marketplace. Approximately % the Company\' net sales fiscal came from sales customers inside the . Final assembly products sold the Company conducted the Company\' manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California, Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the Netherlands, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacture many the components used the Company\' products and final assembly substantially all the Company\' portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and the iPod are performed third-party vendors Taiwan and China. Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Seasonal Business The Company has historically experienced increased net sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters, compared other quarters its fiscal year, due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the school year, respectively. Past performance should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future net sales financial performance. Warranty The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage most Apple hardware products all the Company\' major markets. Backlog the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions because over-ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Environmental Laws Compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect the Company\' capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. the future, these laws could have material adverse affect the Company. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various European Union member states, Japan and California. the future, these laws could have material adverse affect the Company. Employees September , , Apple and its subsidiaries worldwide had , employees and additional , temporary employees and contractors. Available Information The Company\' Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, are available its website http://www apple com investor when such reports are available the . Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) website. The public may read and copy any materials filed the Company with the SEC the SEC\' Public Reference Room Fifth Street, , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC http://www sec gov. The contents these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company\' references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. Item . Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, and the Asia Pacific region. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leased space includes , square feet retail space, majority which the . Lease terms for retail space range from years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. The Company owns its manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, which has approximately , square feet. The Cork facility also houses customer support call center. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which has customer support call center and used for warehousing and distribution. addition, the Company owns approximately , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the ., the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Item . Legal Proceedings The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed below. The Company also subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and which have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain matters , which did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\' results operations. Antor Media Corporation . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiff Antor Media filed this action September , the United States District Court the Eastern District Texas alleging infringement the Company and other defendants . patent , , relating "Method and Apparatus for Transmitting Information Recorded Information Storage Means from Central Server Subscribers via High Data Rate Digital Telecommunications Network." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement and invalidity. Trial set for March . The Court held Markman hearing September , but has not yet issued ruling. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Apple Corps Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Apple Computer, Inc. . Apple Corps Ltd. Plaintiff Apple Corps filed this action July , the High Court Justice, Chancery Division, London alleging that the Company has breached agreement that resolved earlier trademark litigation between the parties regarding use Apple marks. Plaintiff seeks injunction, unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed motion October , , challenging jurisdiction the , but the Court denied the motion April , . The Company filed appeal the Court\' decision but subsequently withdrew the appeal and preparing its defense this matter. October , , the Company filed lawsuit the United States District Court for the Northern District California requesting declaratory judgment that the Company has not breached the agreement. Apple Corps challenged jurisdiction the California case but the Court denied that challenge March , . Apple Corps subsequently prevailed motion stay the California case during the pendency the action. The Company has dismissed the California lawsuit without prejudice. Cagney . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action January , Los Angeles County Superior Court, alleging improper collection sales tax transactions involving mail- rebates. The complaint alleges violations California Civil Code Section (unfair competition) and seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company was served January , , and filed answer February , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company investigating these allegations. The Company filed motion disqualify Plaintiff\' counsel, which the Court denied. The Company filed petition for writ mandate with respect this ruling and the Court Appeal has issued order show cause why the writ should not issue. Plaintiffs lead counsel subsequently withdrew. The hearing the show cause order scheduled for January , . The Company also has obtained opinion the tax issue from the State Board Equalization. Compression Labs, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc., .; Apple . Compression Labs, Inc., . Plaintiff Compression Labs, Inc. filed this patent infringement action April , against the Company and twenty-seven other defendants the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . patent , , . Plaintiff alleges that the Company infringes the patent complying with the JPEG standard defined CCITT Recommendation entitled "Information Technology\x97Digital Compression and Coding Continuous Tone Still Images\x97Requirements and Guidelines." Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company investigating this claim. Defendants have filed motion dismiss , the alternative, transfer the case Delaware. The case discovery and trial expected October . July , , the Company and several other defendants the Texas action filed lawsuit the United States District Court Delaware requesting declaratory judgment noninfringement, invalidity, implied license and unenforceability with respect the \' patent. Additional actions regarding this patent have been filed other jurisdictions. petition has been filed with the Panel Multi-District Litigation (MDL), seeking coordination and transfer all these cases one court for pre-trial proceedings. Craft . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , Santa Clara County Superior Court); Chin . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , San Mateo County Superior Court); Hughes . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , Santa Clara County Superior Court); Westley . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , San Francisco County Superior Court); Keegan . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , Alameda County Superior Court); Wagya . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed February , , Alameda County Superior Court); Yamin . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed February , , Los Angeles County Superior Court); Kieta . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed July , , Alameda County Superior Court) Eight separate plaintiffs filed purported class action cases various California courts alleging misrepresentations the Company relative iPod battery life. The complaints include causes action ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' for violation California Civil Code Section (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Action ("CLRA") and claims for false advertising, fraudulent concealment and breach warranty. The complaints seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company investigating these claims. The cases have been consolidated San Mateo County and Plaintiffs have filed consolidated complaint. addition, similar complaint relative iPod battery life, Mosley . Apple Computer, Inc. was filed Westchester County, New York June , alleging violations New York General Business Law Sections (unfair competition) and (false advertising). The Company removed the case Federal Court and Plaintiff filed motion for remand, which the Court has not yet decided. Davis . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court December , , alleging that the Company engaged unfair and deceptive business practices relating its AppleCare Extended Service and Warranty Plan. Plaintiff asserts causes action for violation the California Business and Professions Code § and § , breach the Song-Beverly Warranty Act, intentional misrepresentation and concealment. Plaintiff requests unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed demurrer and motion strike which were granted, part, and Plaintiff filed amended complaint. The Company filed answer April , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Plaintiff subsequently amended its complaint. October , , the Company filed motion disqualify Plaintiff\' counsel his role counsel the purported class and the general public. The Court granted the motion, but allowed Plaintiff retain substitute counsel. Plaintiff did engage new counsel for the general public, but not for the class. The Company moved disqualify Plaintiff\' new counsel and have the Court dismiss the general public claims for equitable relief. The Court declined disqualify Plaintiff\' new counsel dismiss the equitable claims, but did confirm that the class action claims are dismissed. The case stayed pending appeal. East Texas Technology Partners . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this patent infringement action January , the United States District Court the Eastern District Texas alleging infringement the Company and seven other defendants . patent , , relating "Virtual Connection Remote Unit Server." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Plaintiff\' law firm withdrew from the case because conflict interest and dismissed the complaint without prejudice. The case was -filed February , the Northern District Texas new law firm. The Company received service the new complaint May , and filed response August , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company investigating this claim, and the case discovery. Gobeli Research Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiff Gobeli Research Ltd. filed this patent infringement action against the Company and Sun Microsystems, Inc. April , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . patent , , related "System and Method Controlling Interrupt Processing." Plaintiff alleges that the Company\' Mac and Mac operating systems infringe Plaintiff\' patent. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous defenses. The Company investigating this claim. Goldberg, . . Apple Computer, Inc., . ( . "Dan . Apple Computer, Inc.") Plaintiffs filed this purported class action September , Los Angeles County Superior Court against the Company and other members the industry behalf alleged nationwide class purchasers certain computer hard drives. The case alleges violations Civil Code Section (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act ("CLRA") and false advertising related the size the drives. Plaintiffs allege that calculation hard drive size using the decimal method misrepresents the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' actual size the drive. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. Plaintiff filed amended complaint March , and the Company filed answer September , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company investigating this claim. The parties are conducting discovery related class certification. Hawaii Structural Iron Workers and Pension Trust Fund . Apple Computer, Inc. and Steven . Jobs; Young . Apple Computer, Inc., .; Hsu . Apple Computer Inc., . Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave Plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. Plaintiffs filed their amended complaint January , , and March , , the Company filed motion dismiss the amended complaint. The Court heard the Company\' motion July , and dismissed Plaintiffs\' claims with prejudice August , . Plaintiffs have appealed the ruling. Honeywell International, Inc., . . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiffs Honeywell International, Inc. and Honeywell Intellectual Properties, Inc. filed this action October , the United States District Court Delaware alleging infringement the Company and other defendants . patent , , entitled "Directional Diffuser for Liquid Crystal Display." Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company investigating this claim connection with preparing its response the complaint. MacTech Systems . Apple Computer, Inc.; Macadam . Apple Computer, Inc.; Computer International, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Elite Computers and Software, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; The Neighborhood Computer Store . Apple Computer, Inc. (all Santa Clara County Superior Court) Five resellers have filed similar lawsuits against the Company for various causes action including breach contract, fraud, negligent and intentional interference with economic relationship, negligent misrepresentation, trade libel, unfair competition and false advertising. Plaintiffs request unspecified damages and other relief. The Company answered the Computer International complaint November , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The parties are discovery that case. The Company expects the other four plaintiffs file amended complaints. October , , one the resellers, Macadam, was deauthorized Apple reseller. Macadam filed motion for temporary order reinstate reseller, which the Court denied. The Court denied Macadam\' motion for preliminary injunction December , . Teleshuttle Technologies, LLC and BTG International Inc. . Microsoft and Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this case July , United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging infringement . patent , , , entitled "Method and System for Distributing Updates Presenting Directory Software Available for User Installation That Not Already Installed User Station." Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. Plaintiffs filed amended complaint September , , adding second patent, patent , , entitled "Method and System for Selecting Personalized Set Information Channels." The Company filed answer October , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. VirginMega French Competition Council June , , VirginMega filed complaint with the French Competition Council against Apple Computer France. VirginMega sought "interim measures," requiring the Company license its FairPlay ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' digital rights management ("DRM") technology VirginMega and all other interested parties within thirty days. hearing VirginMega\' request for interim measures took place October , . November , , the French Competition Council issued decision denying VirginMega\' request for interim measures and rejecting VirginMega\' complaint. Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART Item . Market for the Registrant\' Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities ( ) Stock Market Information The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. November , , the Company filed application with the TSE delist the Company\' shares from trading the TSE. November , , there were , shareholders record. The Company did not pay cash dividends either fiscal . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company\' common stock the NASDAQ National Market during each quarter. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Related Shareholder Matters None. ( ) Issuer Purchases Equity Securities July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company\' common stock had fair value $ . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company has repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . The Company did not repurchase any shares its common stock during the fourth quarter fiscal . Item . Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Five fiscal years ended September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ $ $ $ ( ) $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt (including current maturities) $ \x97 $ $ $ $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Shareholders\' equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Net gains before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. net loss before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million was recognized . , the Company acquired Emagic resulting charge approximately $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. The Company recognized similar charge $ million related its acquisition PowerSchool. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. During , the Company recognized the cost special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million. , the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent and was reversed. , settlement the Company\' forward stock purchase agreement resulted gain $ million. Favorable cumulative-effect type adjustments, net taxes, $ million and $ million were recognized and , respectively. Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such "anticipates," "expects," "believes," "plans," "predicts," and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\' actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition" below. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Executive Overview Apple designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops and markets line portable digital music ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' players along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party music and audio books. The Company\' products and services include the Macintosh line desktop and notebook computers, the iPod digital music player, the Xserve server and Xserve RAID storage products, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the Mac operating system, the online iTunes Music Store, portfolio peripherals that support and enhance the Macintosh and iPod product lines, and variety other service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its own retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers and value added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Macintosh compatible products, including computer printers and printing supplies, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, personal digital assistants, and various other computing products and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business and government customers. further description the Company\' products may found Part , Item this document under the heading "Business." The Company\' business strategy leverages its unique ability, through the design and development its own operating system, hardware and many software applications and technologies, bring its customers around the world compelling new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration and innovative industrial design. The Company participates several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Macintosh line computers, consumer electronics with its iPod line digital music players and distribution third-party digital music through its online iTunes Music Store. While the Company widely recognized innovator the personal computer market well leader the emerging market for distribution digital music, these are highly competitive markets that are subject aggressive pricing and increased competition. order remain competitive, the Company believes that increased investment research and development ( & ) necessary order maintain and extend its position the markets where competes. The Company\' & spending focused delivering timely updates and enhancements its existing line personal computers, displays, operating systems, software applications and portable music players; developing new digital lifestyle consumer and professional software applications; and investing new product areas such rack-mount servers, RAID storage systems, and wireless technologies. The Company utilizes variety direct and indirect distribution channels. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware, software and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available only Macintosh computers, and demonstrate the seamless compatibility the Macintosh with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes that providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting and retaining customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company has expanded and improved its distribution capabilities opening its own retail stores the . and internationally. The Company had stores open September , . The Company has also staffed selected third-party stores with the Company\' own employees improve the buying experience through reseller channels. The Company has deployed Apple employees reseller locations around the world including the ., Europe, Japan and Australia. The Company also sells customers direct through one its online stores around the world. improve the accessibility its iPod product line, the Company has significantly expanded the number distribution points where iPods are sold. The iPod product line can now purchased department stores, discount stores and specialty music and audio-visual stores. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles and the Company\' discussion and analysis its financial condition and results operations require the Company\' management make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\' consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may material. Management believes the Company\' critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation and exposures related inventory purchase commitments, valuation long-lived assets including acquired intangibles, warranty costs, and income taxes. Management believes these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company\' financial condition and results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company\' senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company\' Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale products ( ., hardware, software, and peripherals), and extended warranty and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\' product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\' historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result additional reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which could have material adverse impact the Company\' results operations. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe and Asia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\' direct customers. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts based management\' assessment the collectibility specific customer accounts and includes consideration the credit worthiness and financial condition those specific customers. The Company records allowance reduce the specific receivables the amount that reasonably believed collectible. The Company also records allowance for all other trade receivables based multiple factors including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition the Company\' distribution channels, and the aging such receivables. there deterioration major customer\' financial condition, the Company becomes aware additional information related the credit worthiness major customer, future actual default rates trade receivables general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each period that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer industry subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. future demand market conditions for the Company\' products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required record additional write-downs which would negatively affect gross margins the period when the write-downs are recorded. The Company accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Company\' requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\' products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\' products, the Company may required record additional reserves for cancellation fees that would negatively affect gross margins the period when the cancellation fees are identified. Valuation Long-Lived Assets Including Acquired Intangibles The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount such asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. such assets are considered impaired, the impairment recognized earnings equals the amount which the carrying value ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' the assets exceeds their fair market value. Although the Company has recognized material impairment adjustments related its property, plant, and equipment identifiable intangibles during the past three fiscal years, except those made conjunction with restructuring actions, deterioration the Company\' business geographic region business segment the future, including deterioration the performance individual retail stores, could lead such impairment adjustments future periods which such business issues are identified. accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the Company performs review goodwill for impairment annually, earlier indicators potential impairment exist. The review goodwill for potential impairment highly subjective and requires that: ( ) goodwill allocated various reporting units the Company\' business which relates; ( ) the Company estimate the fair value those reporting units which the goodwill relates; and ( ) the Company determine the book value those reporting units. the estimated fair value reporting units with allocated goodwill determined less than their book value, the Company required estimate the fair value all identifiable assets and liabilities those reporting units manner similar purchase price allocation for acquired business. This requires independent valuation certain internally developed and unrecognized assets including -process research and development and developed technology. Once this process complete, the amount goodwill impairment, any, can determined. Based the Company\' estimates September , there was impairment goodwill. However, changes various circumstances including changes the Company\' market capitalization, changes the Company\' forecasts, and changes the Company\' internal business structure could cause one more the Company\' reporting units valued differently thereby causing impairment goodwill. Additionally, response changes the personal computer industry and changes global regional economic conditions, the Company may strategically realign its resources and consider restructuring, disposing, otherwise exiting businesses, which could result impairment property, plant, and equipment, identifiable intangibles, goodwill. Warranty Costs The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\' typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, and adjusts the amounts necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liability would required and could negatively affect the Company\' results operations. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , the provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. the event that all part the net deferred tax assets are determined not realizable the future, adjustment the valuation allowance would charged earnings the period such determination made. Similarly, the Company subsequently realizes deferred tax assets that were previously determined unrealizable, the respective valuation allowance would reversed, resulting positive adjustment earnings decrease goodwill the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\' expectations could have material impact the Company\' results operations and financial position. Net Sales Net sales and Macintosh unit sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product follow (net sales millions and Macintosh unit sales thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change Change Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales , % , % , Japan net sales ( )% ( )% Retail net sales , % % Other segments net sales ( ) % % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Operating Segment: Americas Macintosh unit sales , % , ( )% , Europe Macintosh unit sales % ( )% Japan Macintosh unit sales ( )% ( )% Retail Macintosh unit sales % % Other segments Macintosh unit sales ( ) % % Total Macintosh unit sales , % , ( )% , Net Sales Product: Power Macintosh net sales ( ) $ , % $ , ( )% $ , PowerBook net sales , % , % iMac net sales ( ) ( )% , ( )% , iBook net sales % ( )% Total Macintosh net sales , % , ( )% , iPod , % % Other Music Products ( ) % % Peripherals and Other Hardware ( ) % % Software ( ) % % Service and other sales % % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , insert table folio ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' end table folio Unit Sales Product: Power Macintosh unit sales ( ) % ( )% PowerBook unit sales % % iMac unit sales ( ) ( )% , ( )% , iBook unit sales % ( )% Total Macintosh unit sales , % , ( )% , Net sales per Macintosh unit sold ( ) $ , % $ , % $ , iPod unit sales , % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Notes: ( ) Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker. ( ) Includes Xserve product line. ( ) Includes eMac product line. ( ) Other Music Products consists iTunes Music Store sales, iPod-related services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod-related accessories. ( ) Net sales Peripherals and Other Hardware include sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Net sales Software include sales Apple-branded operating system and application software and sales third-party software. ( ) Net sales per Macintosh unit sold derived dividing total Macintosh net sales total Macintosh unit sales. Fiscal Year versus During fiscal , net sales increased % $ billion from fiscal . Several factors have contributed favorably net sales during : \x95 Net sales Macintosh systems increased $ million % during fiscal compared while net sales per Macintosh unit sold remained relatively flat year-over-year basis. Unit sales Macintosh systems increased , units % during fiscal compared . These increases net sales and unit sales were result strong demand for all the Company\' Macintosh systems, except for the iMac. The Company\' portable systems, consisting the PowerBook and iBook, produced the strongest revenue and unit growth during fiscal compared approximately % and %, respectively. Unit sales portable systems accounted for % all Macintosh systems sold during fiscal compared only % during . The Company believes that these results reflect overall trend the industry towards portable systems. Performance the Company\' Power Macintosh systems also yielded positive results fiscal , including % and % increase net sales and unit sales, respectively. The increase year- -date Power Macintosh sales due primarily the introduction the Power Mac , which began shipping the end fiscal . Although Power Macintosh sales have increased from the prior year, sales this product were constrained the second half result manufacturing problems IBM, the Company\' sole supplier the PowerPC processor. \x95 Net sales iPods rose $ million % during fiscal compared . Unit sales iPods totaled million fiscal , which represents increase % from the , iPod units sold fiscal . Strong demand for the iPods during fiscal continued ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' experienced all the Company\' operating segments and was driven enhancements the iPod, the introduction the iPod mini, increased expansion the Company\' iPod distribution network, and continued success the iTunes Music Store due largely making available both Macintosh and Windows users the ., ., France and Germany. Since inception the iPod product line fiscal , the Company has sold approximately million iPods. \x95 The Retail segment\' net sales grew % $ billion during fiscal compared . This increase largely attributable the increase total stores from the end the end , well % year-over-year increase average revenue per store. While the Company\' customers areas where the Retail segment has opened stores may elect purchase from the Retail segment stores rather than the Company\' preexisting sales channels the . and Japan, the Company believes that substantial portion the Retail segment\' net sales incremental the Company\' total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." \x95 Net sales peripherals and other hardware rose % during fiscal compared primarily due increase net sales displays and other computer accessories. Net sales other computer accessories include AirPort cards and base stations, iSight digital video cameras, and third party hardware products. The increase total net sales peripherals and other hardware related the overall increase Macintosh unit sales and the introduction new and updated peripheral products and was experienced predominantly the Company\' Americas, Europe, and Retail segments. \x95 Other music products consists sales associated with the iTunes Music Store and iPod related services and accessories. Net sales other music products increased $ million % during fiscal compared . The Company has experienced strong growth sales iPod services and accessories consistent with the increase overall iPod unit sales for fiscal . The increased sales from the iTunes Music Store, which was originally introduced April , primarily due making the store available for Windows October and the introduction the store the ., France, and Germany June . \x95 Net sales software rose $ million % during fiscal compared due primarily higher net sales the Company\' Apple-branded software and particular, higher net sales the Company\' operating system software, Mac version "Panther," which was released October . Net sales Panther accounted for approximately $ million over % the increase software net sales for fiscal compared . \x95 The Company\' . education channel experienced year-over-year growth net sales approximately % for fiscal compared . Unit sales also increased % during fiscal compared . The increase . education net sales for fiscal relates primarily % year-over-year increase higher education net sales and lesser extent the Company\' % growth - net sales. The Company believes the . - education market remains challenging due multiple factors including funding pressures due weak economic conditions, large budget deficits many states, and increased competition particularly for desktop computers. Although the Company has taken steps, and will continue take steps, address weakness the . education channel, remains difficult anticipate when and this trend will reverse. \x95 Service and other sales increased $ million % during fiscal compared . These increases are the result significant year-over-year increases net sales associated with AppleCare Protection Plan (APP) extended maintenance and support services, well increases net sales associated with the Company\' Mac Internet service. Increased net sales associated with APP are primarily the result higher Macintosh unit sales and higher attach rates APP over the last several years. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\' net sales during fiscal were negatively impacted the following: \x95 Net sales and unit sales iMac systems were down % and %, respectively, during fiscal versus . The decrease iMac net sales and unit sales was largely due the delay the introduction the new iMac, based the PowerPC processor, primarily result manufacturing problems experienced IBM. The delays the new iMac resulted the depletion inventory the old iMac flat panel prior availability the new iMac . The old flat panel iMac form factor which was available during most fiscal , was nearly years old the time the new iMac began shipping September and had experienced declines sales result the age this product. The Company believes that sales iMac systems have also declined due shift consumer preference portable systems and competitor desktop models with price points below $ , . The Company introduced new version the eMac April with suggested retail price starting $ aimed the price sensitive customer. \x95 Net sales and unit sales the Company\' Japan segment decreased % and %, respectively, during fiscal versus . The Company believes these declines relate shift sales from the Japan Segment the Retail segment result the Tokyo and Osaka store openings fiscal . Declines Japan may also relate delays computer upgrades certain professional and creative customers pending release Japan certain Mac native applications, such Quark Xpress , which did not become available until September . When sales from the Japan retail stores are included the results for the Japan segment, the combined revenue Japan resulted % year-over-year increase fiscal compared . See additional comments below related the Japan segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." Fiscal Year versus Net sales increased $ million % during compared while Macintosh unit sales declined % year-over-year approximately million units . Several factors contributed favorably net sales during including: \x95 The Retail segment\' net sales grew $ million during from $ million , increase %. While the Company\' customers may have elected purchase product from their local Apple Retail store rather than through other preexisting sales channels the ., the Company believes that substantial portion the Retail segment\' net sales was incremental total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." \x95 Net sales iPods rose $ million % during compared . This increase was experienced all the Company\' operating segments. iPod sales during were favorably affected the introduction substantially redesigned new models, which were compatible with both Macintosh and Windows operating systems. The Company\' iPod digital music player sold variety resellers, many which not currently market the Company\' Macintosh systems. The Company expanded this distribution network during , which contributed the increase iPod unit sales %. \x95 The Company also experienced increase net sales peripherals and other hardware totaling $ million % during compared , reflecting overall increase net sales other computer accessories including AirPort cards and base stations, which facilitate wireless connectivity; third party digital cameras and printers; and number portable computer related accessories. \x95 Net sales other music products, including sales associated with the iTunes Music Store and iPod related services and accessories, increased $ million % during compared . This increase was due primarily the introduction the iTunes Music Store for the Macintosh ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' operating system April and higher sales iPod services and accessories consistent with the increase iPod net sales and unit sales during . \x95 Although total Macintosh unit sales were down % , unit sales the Company\' portable systems were relatively strong primarily due the % , unit increase PowerBook unit sales, slightly offset % , unit decrease iBook unit sales. The increase PowerBook net sales $ million % was due primarily the success the Company\' new -inch, -inch and -inch models that were introduced during . The decline iBook consumer portable sales during was primarily due lower average price per unit. Portable systems represented % all Macintosh systems sold versus % , which reflected overall industry trend towards portable systems. \x95 The Company\' average net sales per Macintosh unit sold increased % $ , result various changes overall unit mix towards relatively higher-priced PowerBook systems and increases direct sales primarily from the Company\' retail and online stores, offset somewhat lower year-over-year pricing comparable Macintosh systems for most the Company\' Macintosh product lines response industry pricing pressure, particularly with the Company\' iBook consumer portable systems. PowerBook and Power Macintosh systems accounted for % total unit sales versus % . \x95 Net sales software increased $ million % during compared the prior year and reflected higher net sales Apple-branded application and server software and third-party software. Net sales Apple-branded application and server software increased due the introduction several new software titles during fiscal including Final Cut Express, iLife, and Keynote, well from higher sales software related recent acquisitions including PowerSchool and Emagic. Growth net sales third-party software during was particularly strong the Americas Segment due strong sales software the Company\' online store and its Retail segment. \x95 Service and other sales rose $ million % during which primarily resulted from significant year-over-year increases net sales associated with APP extended maintenance and support services, well the Company\' Internet related services. Increased net sales associated with APP were primarily the result increasing attach rates over the last several years. Increased net sales associated with Internet services were due increased net sales the Company\' Mac Internet service. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\' net sales during were negatively impacted the following factors: \x95 Total unit sales desktop systems fell % during compared . iMac systems unit sales declined % from resulting from shift sales away from desktop systems favor portables. Also, the flat panel iMac form factor available during fiscal was the eighth quarter its life cycle the end . \x95 Unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared . For the first nine months compared the same period , unit sales Power Macintosh systems decreased %, which was representative the decline Power Macintosh systems sales experienced the Company during recent years and was also believed attributable delays purchasing pending the release the Power Mac . expected, this trend reversed the fourth quarter with unit sales increasing % during the quarter compared the same period the prior year due largely the new Power Mac , which the Company introduced June and began shipping the end fiscal . The decline Power Macintosh sales over the previous several years also reflects the shift sales portable systems, particularly PowerBooks. addition, the Company believes that weak economic conditions over the past ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' several years had pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers. Additionally, some the Company\' professional and creative customers may have delayed upgrades their systems anticipation certain software vendors transitioning their professionally oriented Macintosh software applications run natively Mac . \x95 The Company experienced ongoing weakness its . education channel during . Net sales and unit sales . education during were down % and %, respectively, compared . This decline was due decrease - sales, partially offset increase higher education sales. Net sales declined primarily result continued shift mix away from higher priced Power Macintosh and iMac systems towards lower priced eMac and iBook systems, although the Company did experience significant increase sales its PowerBook systems primarily higher education customers. Portable systems accounted for approximately % total unit sales the education channel during , compared approximately % . Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan and excludes revenue from the Company\' own retail stores Japan, which included the Company\' Retail segment. The Retail segment operated Apple-owned retail stores the . and Japan during fiscal . Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Americas During fiscal , net sales the Americas segment grew % $ million compared fiscal . The increase net sales during was primarily attributable the significant year-over-year increase iPod sales well strong sales peripherals, software, and services. This increase was partially offset shift sales the Retail segment, which had stores the . the end fiscal . Macintosh unit sales also increased % fiscal compared , driven primarily strong sales portable and Power Macintosh systems, partially offset continued weakness iMac sales. During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\' total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. noted above, the Company experienced increase . education channel net sales % for fiscal compared . Strong . education net sales for the current year relate primarily strength higher education net sales that resulted from successful back- -school selling season with strong demand for the Company\' portables. This strength drove year-over-year growth net sales % for the higher education channel during fiscal . The Company\' - net sales grew year-over-year % during fiscal , despite the challenges the - market from continued budget constraints and increased competition, due the Company\' continued focus and success with delivering : education solutions. Net sales the Americas segment during increased $ million % compared . During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\' total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. The results the Americas segment are similar the overall results the Company they reflect substantially lower unit sales and net sales Power Macintosh systems and iMac systems, partially offset increases unit sales and net sales PowerBooks. The net sales the Americas segment, and the Company total, also reflect substantially higher sales iPods, peripherals, software, and services during compared . The Americas segment had been negatively affected weakness its . education channel during . Total net sales and unit sales the . education channel during ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' were down % and %, respectively, compared the same period . The Company believes this decline was caused increased competition the education market and reduction spending . educational institutions due federal and state funding concerns and tax revenue shortfalls resulting from the weak economy. Additionally, some the decline during net sales and unit sales Macintosh systems the Americas segment may the result the operation the Company\' Retail segment whose net sales, all which occurred within the ., increased significantly during . Europe Net sales Europe rebounded fiscal increasing $ million % from . Total Macintosh unit sales Europe also experienced growth during the current year increasing % fiscal compared . Consistent with the Americas segment, Europe experienced strong net sales across all product lines, except for the iMac systems. Demand Europe during fiscal was particularly strong for the Company\' Power Macintosh systems and portable Macintosh systems, which experienced year-over-year increases % and %, respectively. Similar the results the Company\' other segments, net sales iPods, peripherals and software were strong fiscal . Net sales Europe increased $ million % during compared while Macintosh unit sales declined % during the same period. Europe\' operating results were consistent with the trend experienced the Americas and the Company whole. Europe experienced weakened demand for Power Macintosh, iMac and iBook systems , partially offset strong demand for PowerBooks whose net sales increased % $ million from . Europe also realized increased sales iPods, peripherals, software, and services. Japan The Japan segment continues challenge for the Company, with four consecutive years year-over-year declines both net sales and Macintosh unit sales. Japan\' net sales and unit sales were down % and %, respectively during fiscal compared , continuing lag behind all the Company\' other operating segments. These decreases net sales and unit sales are believed attributable part shift sales from the Japan segment the Retail segment result the opening two stores Japan fiscal . addition, such decreases may have been related delayed computer system upgrades some professional and creative customers who were awaiting the release Quark XPress for Mac , which did not occur until September . The decrease net sales was partially offset strong iPod and iBook sales during fiscal compared . Net sales Japan decreased $ million % during compared the same period , the weakest year- -date performance any the Company\' operating segments. Japan\' Macintosh unit sales were particularly weak , declining %, and were primarily attributable lower sales iMac and iBook systems, partially offset increase PowerBook sales well higher sales iPods, and peripherals and other hardware. Japan\' Macintosh unit sales remained significantly below the segment\' historic levels due economic conditions that remained particularly negative Japan. Retail The Company opened new retail stores during , including its first two international stores Tokyo and Osaka, Japan, bringing the total number open stores September , . This compares open stores September , and open stores September , . During the first quarter , the Company anticipates opening approximately additional stores end the calendar year approximately stores. Approximately half the stores expected open during the first quarter will the new "mini" store design, which the Company\' smallest store format date; allowing placed variety new locations introduce the Company\' innovative products even more customers. The Company also opened its third international store London, England during the first quarter . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Net sales the Retail segment grew $ billion during from $ million and $ million, and , respectively. The increases net sales during both and reflect the impact new store openings for each fiscal year, including the opening new stores and new stores . increase average revenue per store also contributed the segment\' strong sales fiscal . With average stores open during , the Retail segment achieved annualized revenue per store approximately $ million, compared $ million with store average and $ million with store average. measured the Company\' operating segment reporting, the Retail segment reported profit $ million during fiscal compared losses $ million and $ million during and , respectively. This improvement primarily attributable the segment\' year-over-year increase average quarterly revenue per store, the impact opening new stores, and the segment\' year-over-year increase net sales, which resulted higher leverage occupancy, depreciation and other fixed costs. Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital expenditures associated with the Retail segment were $ million fiscal , bringing the total capital expenditures since inception the Retail segment approximately $ million. September , , the Retail segment had approximately , employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities approximately $ million. The Company would incur substantial costs should choose terminate its Retail segment close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Gross margin declined fiscal % net sales from % net sales . The Company\' gross margin during fiscal declined due increase mix towards lower margin iPod and iBook sales, pricing actions certain Power Macintosh models that were transitioned during the beginning , higher warranty costs certain portable Macintosh products, and higher freight and duty costs during fiscal . These unfavorable factors were partially offset increase direct sales and % year-over-year increase higher margin software sales. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margin the overall personal computer and consumer electronics industries will remain under pressure throughout fiscal light price competition, especially for the iPod product line. The Company also expects continue incur air freight charges, which negatively impact gross margins the iMac and other products during the first quarter and possibly beyond. The foregoing statements regarding the Company\' expected gross margin during , general demand for personal computers, anticipated air freight charges, and future economic conditions are forward- looking. There can assurance that current gross margins will maintained targeted gross margin levels will achieved. general, gross margins and margins individual products, including iPods, will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\' product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage product quality and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account anticipated changes foreign currency exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third-parties excess insufficient inventories particular products components. The Company\' operating results and financial condition the past have been and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Gross margin decreased % net sales from % net sales . This decline gross margin reflects relatively aggressive pricing actions several Macintosh models instituted the Company beginning late fiscal result continued pricing pressure throughout the personal computer industry, lower sales relatively higher margin Power Macintosh systems during the first three fiscal quarters , and increased air freight and manufacturing costs associated with the production ramp- the new Power Mac and -inch PowerBook, both which began shipping volume during September . This decline also attributable rise certain component costs the year progressed. The aforementioned negative factors affecting gross margins during were partially offset the increase higher margin software and direct sales. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except for percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and development $ $ $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ $ $ Purchased -process research and development \x97 \x97 $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and Development ( & ) The Company recognizes that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. The Company has historically relied upon innovation remain competitive. & expense amounted approximately % total net sales during fiscal down from % total net sales both and . This decrease due the significant increase % total net sales the Company for fiscal . Although & expense decreased percentage total net sales fiscal , actual expenditures for & fiscal increased $ million % from fiscal , which follows % $ million increase compared . The overall increase & expense relates primarily increased headcount and support for new product development activities and the impact employee salary merit increases . & spending also included capitalized software development costs approximately $ million related the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' development Mac Tiger and $ million related the development FileMaker Pro ; $ million related the development Mac Panther ; and approximately $ million associated with the development Mac Jaguar and approximately $ million associated with the PowerSchool enterprise student information system . Further information related the Company\' capitalization software development costs may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense ( & ) Expenditures for & increased $ million % during compared . These increases are due primarily the Company\' continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets, current year increase discretionary spending marketing and advertising, increase amortization costs associated with restricted stock compensation, and higher direct and channel selling expenses resulting from the increase net sales and employee salary merit increases. & percentage total net sales was %, down from % . This decrease due the increase % total net sales the Company for fiscal , reflecting leverage the Company\' fixed costs. & increased $ million % during compared due primarily the Company\' continued expansion the Retail segment and increases headcount. The overall increase was partially offset decrease discretionary spending marketing and advertising and savings resulting from the and restructuring activities described below. Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations. the $ million charge, $ million had been spent the end , with the remaining $ million consisting $ million for employee severance benefits and $ million for lease cancellations. During the fourth quarter , the Company recognized restructuring expense $ million. conjunction with the European workforce reduction during the second quarter , the Company vacated leased sales facility during the fourth quarter resulting charge $ million for contract termination and asset impairment costs. The Company also recognized employee termination costs $ million related the elimination non-essential positions, principally Europe. addition, the Company reversed $ , excess restructuring expense from prior periods related primarily lower than expected disposal costs Sacramento manufacturing-related fixed assets. The net cost the restructuring plans for the fourth quarter was $ million, which $ , had been paid prior the end . These actions will result the termination positions, which had been terminated prior the end . During the third quarter , the Company finalized restructuring plans related closing Company-owned manufacturing activities Sacramento. addition, the Company\' management approved restructuring plans related certain headcount reductions primarily for various sales and marketing activities principally the . Total cost the restructuring plan for the third quarter was $ million, which $ million had been paid prior the end . These actions will result the termination positions, which had been terminated prior the end . The closing manufacturing operations Sacramento resulted the elimination positions for severance cost $ million and write-off $ million manufacturing-related fixed assets whose use ceased during the third quarter . Termination sales and marketing activities, principally the ., resulted severance $ million for the elimination positions. During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved restructuring plans related the termination Company-owned manufacturing activities Sacramento and headcount reductions ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' related primarily various sales and marketing activities the . and Europe. Total cost the actions was $ million for the termination positions. the end the fourth quarter , $ million had been spent and positions had been eliminated related these actions. The Company estimates the closing the Sacramento manufacturing operations will result reduced ongoing quarterly operating expenses approximately $ million. addition, the Company estimates that the remaining restructuring actions taken fiscal will ultimately result reduced ongoing quarterly operating expenses approximately $ million. Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million charge write-off deferred compensation, $ million asset impairments and $ million charge for lease cancellations. the $ million charge, all had been spent the end , except for approximately $ million related operating lease costs abandoned facilities. During the third quarter , approximately $ , the amount originally accrued for lease cancellations was determined excess due the sublease property sooner than originally estimated and approximately $ , shortfall was identified the severance accrual due higher than expected severance costs related the closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations. These adjustments had net effect reported operating expense. During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions that resulted recognition total restructuring charge $ million, including $ million severance costs and $ , for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. Actions taken the second quarter were for the most part supplemental actions initiated the prior two quarters and focused further headcount reductions various sales and marketing functions the Company\' Americas and Europe operating segments and further reductions associated with PowerSchool-related activities the Americas operating segment, including accrual for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. The second quarter actions resulted the termination employees. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost $ million that resulted the termination manufacturing operations the Company-owned facility Singapore, further reductions headcount resulting from the shift PowerSchool product strategy that took place the end fiscal , and termination various sales and marketing activities the . and Europe. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination positions worldwide. Closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations resulted severance costs $ million and costs $ million write-off manufacturing related fixed assets, whose use ceased during the first quarter. PowerSchool related costs included severance approximately $ , and recognition $ million previously deferred stock compensation that arose when PowerSchool was acquired the Company related certain PowerSchool employee stockholders who were terminated the first quarter . Termination sales and marketing activities and employees, principally the . and Europe, resulted severance costs $ million and accrual costs associated with operating leases closed facilities $ million. The total net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the first quarter also reflects the reversal $ , unused restructuring accrual originally made during the first quarter . Fiscal Restructuring Actions During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. During the fourth quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million designed reduce headcount costs corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million, all which were eliminated September , . Eliminated positions were primarily corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development the Americas operating segment. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool\' PSE product. This shift resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the PSE product the amount $ million. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. The Company ceased using the assets associated with first quarter restructuring actions during that same quarter. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled $ million. The first quarter restructuring actions were primarily related corporate activity not allocated operating segments. During the first quarter , the Company reversed the remaining unused accrual $ , . Purchased -Process Research and Development (IPR& ) During , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH, provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ , which was allocated IPR& . The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The fair value the IPR& was determined using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Gains (losses) non-current investments, net $ $ $ ( ) Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments, net Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 Interest and other income, net $ $ $ Total other income and expense $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Gains and Losses Non-current Investments Over the course the last three years, the Company has held investments that were classified available-for-sale EarthLink Inc. (EarthLink), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), ARM Holdings plc (ARM) and certain investments private companies. Further information related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. During , the Company sold its remaining , shares Akamai stock. The transaction generated proceeds approximately $ million and gain before taxes approximately $ million. September , , the Company does not have any non-current public company investments reflected its consolidated balance sheet. During , the Company sold , , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes approximately $ million. Additionally, the Company sold its remaining investment ARM stock, , shares, for net proceeds approximately $ , , and gain before taxes $ , , and sold its remaining investment EarthLink stock, , , shares, for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes $ million. During , the Company determined that declines the fair value certain investments were other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment EarthLink, $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment Akamai, and $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment private company investment. These losses were partially offset the sale , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , the sale , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , and the sale approximately million shares ARM stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. Interest and Other Income, Net Total interest and other income, net decreased $ million % $ million during fiscal compared $ million and $ million . These decreases are attributable primarily declining investment yields the Company\' cash and short-term investments resulting from lower market interest and shortening the average maturity the Company\' investment portfolio, well lower gains sales short-term investments fiscal . The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments fell % compared the % and % rates earned during and , respectively. The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. result such sales, the Company recognized net gains $ million, $ million and $ million during fiscal , and , respectively. The decrease total interest and other income, net during fiscal was also offset the $ million gain related the forward purchase agreement during the fourth quarter which further discussed below under the heading "Cumulative Effects Accounting Changes." Interest expense consisted primarily interest the Company\' $ million aggregate principal amount unsecured notes, which were repaid upon their maturity February , partially offset amortization deferred gains realized and that resulted from the closure swap positions associated with the unsecured notes. The unsecured notes were sold % par for effective yield maturity %. Total deferred gain resulting from the closure debt swaps approximately $ million was fully amortized the notes\' maturity February . Provision for Income Taxes The Company\' effective tax rate for the year ended September , was approximately %. The Company\' effective rate differs from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes are provided because such earnings are intended ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' indefinitely reinvested outside the . September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates principally the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its field audit the Company\' federal income tax returns for all years prior and proposed certain adjustments. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for these years have been resolved. addition, the Company also subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\' tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Cumulative Effects Accounting Changes Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity May , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity . SFAS . requires issuers classify liabilities certain freestanding financial instruments that embody obligations for the issuer and have characteristics both liabilities and equity. The Company adopted the provisions SFAS . June , , which resulted favorable cumulative effect type adjustment approximately $ million. This adjustment represented the mark- -market adjustment fair value for forward purchase agreement that allowed the Company acquire million shares its common stock price $ per share. The Company settled this forward purchase agreement August . The settlement resulted additional gain approximately $ million, which included interest and other income, net. Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations September , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations , which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment net income during approximately $ million. This adjustment represents cumulative depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized through the date adoption SFAS . had the statement been applied the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations the time they were initially incurred. Recent Accounting Pronouncements December , the Securities and Exchange Commission released Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition , which supercedes SAB , Revenue Recognition Financial Statements . SAB clarifies existing guidance regarding revenue contracts that contain multiple deliverables make consistent with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) . - . The adoption SAB did not have material impact the Company\' results operations financial position. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' December , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation . (FIN) 46R, revision FIN , Consolidation Variable Interest Entities. FIN 46R clarifies some the provisions FIN and exempts certain entities from its requirements. FIN 46R effective the end the first interim period ending after March , . The adoption FIN 46R did not have material impact the Company\' results operations financial position. March , the FASB issued EITF Issue . - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application Certain Investments . EITF - includes new guidance for evaluating and recording impairment losses debt and equity investments, well new disclosure requirements for investments that are deemed temporarily impaired. September , the FASB issued FASB Staff Position EITF - - , which delays the effective date until additional guidance issued for the application the recognition and measurement provisions EITF - investments securities that are impaired; however, the disclosure requirements are effective for annual periods ending after June , . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application EITF - , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact its results operations financial position. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation The Company currently measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees and provides pro forma disclosures the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. The Company has elected follow APB Opinion . because, further discussed Part , Item this Form - Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. March , , the FASB issued proposed Statement, Share-Based Payment, that addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions which enterprise receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the enterprise ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\' equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. The proposed Statement would eliminate the ability account for share-based compensation transactions using APB Opinion . and generally would require instead that such transactions accounted for using fair-value-based method. adopted, currently anticipated that the proposed Statement would effective for the Company beginning its fourth fiscal quarter . the Company\' annual shareholders meeting April , , shareholders approved proposal requesting that the Company\' Board Directors (the Board) establish policy expensing the value all future employee stock options issued the Company. The Board and management appreciate and take seriously the views expressed the Company\' shareholders. The Company decided not expense the value employee stock options until the FASB finalizes its new accounting standard the matter, which may play significant role determining the fair value and accounting for employee stock options. The Company monitors progress the FASB and other developments with respect the general issue employee stock compensation. The Company currently reviewing the potential impact from the guidance the proposed statement, which may require the Company recognize substantially more compensation expense future periods that could have material adverse impact the Company\' future results operations. The accounting impact had the Company chosen apply the fair-value recognition provisions SFAS . , instead the recognition provisions under APB Opinion . , described Part , Item this Form - Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ $ $ Inventory $ $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable (DSO) ( ) Days supply inventory ( ) Days payables outstanding (DPO) ( ) Annual operating cash flow $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) DSO based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Days supply inventory based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. ( ) DPO based ending accounts payable and most recent quarterly cost sales adjusted for the change inventory. September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, increase $ million over the same balances the end fiscal . The principal components this increase were cash generated operating activities $ million and proceeds $ million from the issuance common stock under stock plans, partially offset cash used repay the Company\' outstanding debt $ million and purchases property, plant, and equipment $ million. The Company\' short-term investment portfolio primarily invested high credit quality, liquid investments. Approximately $ billion this cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held the Company\' foreign subsidiaries and would subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company currently assessing the impact the one-time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted part the American Jobs Creation Act , and may decide repatriate earnings from some its foreign subsidiaries. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, stock repurchase activity, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. Debt February , the Company retired $ million debt outstanding the form % unsecured notes. The notes were originally issued and were sold % par for effective yield maturity %. The Company currently has long-term debt obligations. Capital Expenditures The Company\' total capital expenditures were $ million during fiscal , $ million which were for retail store facilities and equipment related the Company\' Retail segment and $ million which were primarily for corporate infrastructure, including information systems enhancements and operating facilities enhancements and expansions. The Company currently anticipates will utilize approximately $ million for capital expenditures during , approximately $ million which expected utilized for further expansion the Company\' Retail segment and the remainder utilized support normal replacement existing capital assets and enhancements general information technology infrastructure. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company\' common stock had fair value $ . Other than this forward purchase transaction, the Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock since fiscal . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was still authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk credit risk support the Company. The following table presents certain payments due the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments September , and excludes amounts already recorded the Company\' balance sheet current liabilities ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE TOTAL Payments Due Less Than year Payments Due - years Payments Due - years Payments Due More Than years Operating Leases $ $ $ $ $ Purchase Obligations , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Asset Retirement Obligations \x97 Other Obligations \x97 \x97 Total $ , $ , $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases approximately $ million, $ million which related the lease retail space and related facilities. Remaining terms the Company\' existing operating leases range from years. Purchase Obligations The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\' products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. The nature the Company\' outstanding third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments has not changed significantly since the end its fiscal . September , , the Company had ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' outstanding third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments approximately $ billion. Asset Retirement Obligations The Company\' asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. September , , the Company estimates that gross expected future cash flows approximately $ million would required fulfill these obligations. Other Obligations The Company\' other obligations approximately $ million are primarily related telecommunications services. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse affect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. General economic conditions and current economic and political uncertainty could adversely affect the demand for the Company\' products and the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. The Company\' operating performance depends significantly general economic conditions the . and abroad. Over the past several years, demand for the Company\' products has been negatively impacted difficult global economic conditions. Additionally, some the Company\' education customers appeared delaying technology purchases due concerns about the overall impact the weaker economy and state budget deficits their available funding. Although recent macroeconomic trends seem indicate economic recovery, continued uncertainty about future economic conditions makes difficult forecast future demand for the Company\' products and related operating results. Should global and regional economic conditions deteriorate, demand for the Company\' products could adversely affected, could the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. War, terrorism, public health issues other business interruptions could disrupt supply, delivery demand products, which could negatively affect the Company\' operations and performance. War, terrorism, public health issues and other business interruptions whether the . abroad, have caused and could continue cause damage disruption international commerce creating economic and political uncertainties that may have strong negative impact the global economy, the Company, and the Company\' suppliers customers. The Company\' major business operations are subject interruption earthquake, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, medical conditions, and other events beyond its control. The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake other natural manmade disaster. Although impossible predict the occurrences consequences any such events, such events could result decrease demand for the Company\' products, make difficult impossible deliver products its customers receive components from its suppliers, and could create delays and inefficiencies the Company\' supply chain. addition, should major public health issues, including epidemics, arise the Company could negatively impacted the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations the availability freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between various regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\' manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these events. The market for personal computers and related peripherals and services, well digital music devices and related services, highly competitive. the Company unable effectively compete these markets, its results operations could adversely affected. The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. Over the past several years, price competition the market for personal computers and related peripherals has been particularly intense. The Company\' competitors who sell Windows and Linux based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins order gain maintain market share response the weakness demand that began the second half calendar for personal computing products. The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry-wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The personal computer industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. Several the Company\' competitors have introduced announced plans introduce digital music products and online stores offering digital music distribution that mimic many the unique design, technical features, and solutions the Company\' products. The Company has significant number competitors, many whom have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, there has been trend towards consolidation the personal computer industry that has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors the Company\' markets. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing other competing operating systems, including Windows and Linux. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The Company currently focused market opportunities related digital music distribution and related consumer electronic devices, including iPods. The Company faces increasing competition from other companies promoting their own digital music products and distribution services and free peer- -peer music services. These competitors include both new entrants with novel market approaches, such subscription services models, and also larger companies that may have greater technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than those the Company, well established hardware, software and music content supplier relationships. Failure effectively compete could negatively affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. There can assurance that the Company will able continue provide products and services that effectively compete these markets successfully distribute and sell digital music outside the . The Company may also have respond price competition lowering prices and increasing features which could adversely affect the Company\' music product gross margins well overall Company gross margins. The Company also faces increased competition the . education market. Sales the . both elementary and secondary schools, well for college and university customers, remain core market for the Company. Uncertainty this channel remains several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target the education market for personal computers, which could negatively affect the Company\' market share. effort regain market share and remain competitive, the Company has been and will continue pursue one- -one ( : ) learning solutions education. The Company\' : learning solutions are complete solution consisting iBook portable system for every student and teacher along with wireless network connected central server. These : learning solutions and other strategic sales are generally priced more aggressively and could result significantly less profitability even financial losses, particularly for larger deals. Although the Company believes has taken certain steps strengthen its position the education market, there can assurance that the Company will able increase maintain its share the education market execute profitably large strategic arrangements. Failure may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions order remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, which are characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products order remain competitive, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new products and upgraded versions the Company\' existing products. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance; the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, including production ramp issues; the availability application software for new products; the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand; the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand; and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. The Company\' products, from time time, experience quality problems that can result decreased net sales and operating profits. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that can contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation the software. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third-parties. There can assurance that the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware and software sells. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Failure could result lost revenue, loss reputation, and significant warranty and other expense remedy. Because orders for components, and some cases commitments purchase components, must placed advance customer orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been cancelled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer and consumer electronics industries, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may have, material effect the Company\' financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Future operating results are dependent upon the Company\' ability obtain sufficient supply components, including microprocessors, some which are short supply available only from limited sources. Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and ASICs are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some key components (including without limitation DRAM, and TFT-LCD flat-panel displays), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\' yields have matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry including certain microprocessors and ASICs. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\' requirements. the supply key component were delayed constrained new existing product, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (formerly the Semiconductor Products Segment Motorola, Inc.), the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation and other developers and producers microprocessors used personal computers using other operating systems. Further, despite its efforts educate the marketplace the contrary, the Company believes that many its current and potential customers believe that the relatively slower MHz ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' rating clock speed the microprocessors utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized other operating systems and translates slower overall system performance. There have been instances recent years where the inability the Company\' suppliers provide advanced PowerPC microprocessors sufficient quantity has had significant adverse effects the Company\' results operations. addition, IBM currently the Company\' sole supplier the PowerPC processor, which used the Company\' current Power Mac, Xserve, and iMac products. Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. the sole supplier the processor, which used the Company\' eMac and portable products. IBM has recently experienced manufacturing problems with the PowerPC processor, which resulted the Company delaying the shipment various products and constrained certain product shipments during the second half . The inability IBM remedy these problems timely manner, avoid manufacturing problems the future, and deliver the Company microprocessors sufficient quantities with competitive price performance features could further constrain shipments products containing the processor and could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. The Company dependent manufacturing and logistics services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the . Most the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the cost operations, they also reduce the Company\' direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured services rendered, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. Final assembly products sold the Company currently conducted the Company\' manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California, Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the Netherlands, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacture many the components used the Company\' products and final assembly substantially all the Company\' portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and the iPod performed third-party vendors Taiwan and China. for any reason manufacturing logistics any these locations disrupted events such regional economic, business, environmental, medical, political, information technology system failures, military actions, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' future operating performance dependent the performance distributors and other resellers the Company\' products. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. addition, the Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly end users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online stores around the world and its retail stores. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins and have been negatively affected recent economic conditions. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weaken, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\' products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\' products caused resellers ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. The Company has invested and will continue invest various programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\' stores with Company employees. These programs could require substantial investment from the Company, while providing assurance return incremental revenue offset this investment. Over the past several years, increasing proportion the Company\' net sales have been made the Company directly end-users through its online stores around the world and through its retail stores the . and Japan. Some the Company\' resellers have perceived this expansion the Company\' direct sales conflicting with their own business and economic interests distributors and resellers the Company\' products. Perception such conflict could discourage the Company\' resellers from investing additional resources the distribution and sale the Company\' products lead them limit cease distribution the Company\' products. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected expansion its direct sales end-users causes some all its resellers cease limit distribution the Company\' products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution." The Company relies third-party music content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with third parties offer their music content customers through the Company\' iTunes Music Store. The Company pays substantial fees obtain the rights offer its customers this third-party music. Many the Company\' licensing arrangements with these third-party content providers are short-term nature and not guarantee the future renewal these arrangements commercially reasonable terms, all. Certain parties the music industry have announced their intent consolidate their music distribution operations, which could limit the availability and increase the fees required offer music content customers through the iTunes Music Store. Further, some third-party content providers currently, may the future, offer music products and services that compete with the Company\' music products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license their music content the future. the Company unable continue offer wide variety music content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach outside the ., then sales and gross margins the Company\' iTunes Music Store well related hardware and peripherals, including iPods, may adversely affected. Third-party content providers and artists require that the Company provide certain digital rights management solutions and other security mechanisms. the requirements from content providers artists change, then the Company may required further develop license technology address such new rights and requirements. There assurance that the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner, all, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company\' future performance dependent upon support from third-party software developers. third-party software applications cease developed available for the Company\' hardware products, then customers may choose not buy the Company\' products. The Company believes that decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications such Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, continued acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' software products. the extent the Company\' financial losses prior years and the minority market share held the Company the personal computer market, well the Company\' decision end its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. Moreover, there can assurance software developers will continue develop software for Mac , the Company\' operating system, timely basis all. addition, past and future development the Company its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision software developers develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\' products. The Company currently markets and sells variety software applications for use professionals, consumers, and education customers that could influence the decisions third-party software developers develop upgrade Macintosh-compatible software products. Software applications currently marketed the Company include software for professional film and video editing, professional compositing and visual effects for large format film and video productions, professional music production and music post production, professional and consumer DVD encoding and authoring, consumer digital video and digital photo editing and management, digital music management, desktop-based database management, and high-quality presentations. The Company also markets integrated productivity application that incorporates word processing, page layout, image manipulation, spreadsheets, databases, and presentations single application. August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation entered into patent cross license and technology agreements. addition, for period five years through August , and subject certain limitations related the number Macintosh computers sold the Company, Microsoft was required make versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac . Although Microsoft has released Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer for Mac , Microsoft has not been obligated produce future versions its products subsequent August . While the Company believes its relationship with Microsoft has been and will continue beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Company does compete directly with Microsoft number key areas. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac following expiration the agreements may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system and competing digital media applications, including music distribution service and technology. June , Microsoft stated that would longer develop new versions Internet Explorer for the Mac , subsequent the Company\' introduction during its own web browser, Safari. Further discontinuance products for the Macintosh platform, including Microsoft Office and other Microsoft products could have adverse effect the Company\' net sales and results operations. The Company\' business relies access patents and intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company\' future results could adversely affected alleged found have infringed the intellectual property rights others. Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third-parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available available acceptable terms. Because technological changes the computer and consumer electronics industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' property rights others. Responding such claims, regardless their merit, can time consuming, result significant expenses, and cause the diversion management and technical personnel. Several pending claims are various stages evaluation. The Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements certain these cases. However, assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. the event there temporary permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain its products successful claim infringement against the Company requiring pay royalties third-party, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected. Information regarding certain claims and litigation involving the Company related alleged patent infringement and other matters set forth Part , Item this Form - . the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights others that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its results operations, financial condition. However, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others described Part , Item this Form - should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company\' retail initiative has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. Through September , the Company has opened retail stores. The Company\' retail initiative has required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with lease terms ranging from years, the majority which are for years. The Company could incur substantial costs should choose terminate this initiative close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Additionally, relatively high proportion the Retail segment\' costs are fixed because depreciation store construction costs and lease expense. result, significant losses would result should the Retail segment experience decline sales for any reason. Certain the Company\' stores have been designed and built serve high profile venues that function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company\' more typical retail stores. The Company has opened seven such stores through November . Because their location and size, these high profile stores also require the Company enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared those required for its more typical stores. Current leases such locations have terms ranging from years with total commitments per location over the lease terms ranging from $ million $ million. Closure poor performance one these high profile stores could have particularly significant negative impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Many the general risks and uncertainties the Company faces could also have adverse impact its Retail segment. Also, many factors unique retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some which are beyond the Company\' control, that could adversely affect the Retail segment\' future results, cause its actual results differ from those currently expected, and have adverse effect the Company\' consolidated results operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique retail operations that could have adverse impact the Retail segment include, among other things, macro-economic factors that have negative impact general retail activity; inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation; lack consumer acceptance the Company\' retail approach; failure attract new users the Macintosh platform; inability sell third-party hardware and software products adequate margins; failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack experience ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' managing retail operations outside the .; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability obtain quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company\' ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. The Company may decide invest new business strategies engage acquisitions that complement the Company\' strategic direction and product roadmap. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management\' attention away from normal business operations; insufficient revenue generation offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy; and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\' due diligence process. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, assurance can given that such strategies and initiatives will successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company\' business, operating results financial condition. Declines the sales the Company\' professional products increases sales consumer products, including iPods, may negatively impact the Company\' gross margin and operating margin percentages Unit sales the Company\' professional products, including Power Macintosh and PowerBook systems, generally have higher gross margins than the Company\' consumer products, including iMacs, iBooks, iPods, and content from the iTunes Music Store. shift sales mix away from higher margin professional products towards lower margin consumer products could adversely affect the Company\' future gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company\' traditional professional customers may choose buy consumer products, specifically the iMac and iBook, instead professional products. Professional users may choose buy the iMac due its relative price performance, use the same PowerPC processor used the Company\' Power Macs, and unique design featuring flat panel screen. Potential PowerBook customers may also choose purchase iBooks instead due their price performance and screen size. Additionally, significant future growth iPod sales without corresponding growth higher margin product sales could also reduce gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company believes that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers who are significant users its professional systems. Also, likely that many the Company\' current and potential professional, creative, and small business customers, who are most likely utilize professional systems, believe that the relatively slower MHz rating clock speed the microprocessors the Company utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized other computer manufacturers and translates slower overall system performance. These factors may result adverse impact sales the Company\' professional products well gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\' profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company\' direct sales, primarily through its retail and online stores, generally have higher associated profitability than its indirect sales. Additionally, the Company\' direct channels have traditionally had more sales software and higher priced hardware products, which generally have higher gross margins, than through its indirect channels. result, the Company\' gross margin and operating margin percentages well overall profitability may adversely impacted result shift product, geographic channel mix. addition, the Company generally sells more products during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months, pattern typical the personal computer industry. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\' internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely impact the Company\' ability predict its financial results accurately. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\' products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\' key logistics, components suppliers, manufacturing partners, can have significant adverse impacts the Company and its results operations and financial condition. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The Company has higher research and development and selling, general and administrative costs, percentage revenue, than many its competitors. The Company\' ability compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins and revenue growth heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow innovative and competitive products and technologies the marketplace. result, the Company incurs higher research and development costs percentage revenue than its competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems. Many these competitors seek compete aggressively price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, result the expansion the Company\' Retail segment and costs associated with marketing the Company\' brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs higher selling costs percentage revenue than many its competitors. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive gross margins, its results operations may materially adversely affected its operating cost structure. The Company exposed credit risk its accounts receivables. This risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly certain educational institutions and commercial customers. substantial majority the Company\' outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale the Company raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. While the Company has procedures place monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and non-trade receivables, there can assurance that such procedures will effective limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, the global economy and regional economies fail improve continue deteriorate, becomes more likely that the Company will incur material loss losses result the weakening financial condition one more its customers manufacturing vendors. The Company\' success depends largely its ability attract and retain key personnel. Much the future success the Company depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, members its executive team, and those technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the information technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where the majority the Company\' key employees are located. The Company has relied its ability grant stock options one mechanism for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Potential accounting regulations requiring the expensing stock options may impair the Company\' future ability provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. There can assurance that the Company will continue successfully attract and retain key personnel. The Company subject risks associated with the availability and cost insurance. The Company has observed rapidly changing conditions the insurance markets relating nearly all areas traditional commercial insurance. Such conditions have and may continue result higher premium costs, higher policy deductibles, lower coverage limits and may also yield possible policy form exclusions. For some risks, because cost and availability, the Company does not have insurance coverage. Because the Company retains some portion its insurable risks, and some cases self insures completely, unforeseen catastrophic losses excess insured limits may have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations and financial position. Failure information technology systems and breaches the security data upon which the Company relies could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. Information technology system failures and breaches data security could disrupt the Company\' ability function the normal course business potentially causing delays cancellation customer ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' orders, impeding the manufacture shipment products, resulting the unintentional disclosure customer Company information. Management has taken steps address these concerns for its own systems implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures. However, there can assurance that system failure data security breach the Company third-party vendor will not have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations. The Company\' business subject the risks international operations. large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. The Company\' primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non-dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company\' products and the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can increase the cost the Company product components, negatively affecting the Company\' results operations. Margins sales the Company\' products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Derivative instruments, such foreign exchange forward and option positions have been utilized the Company hedge exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates. Further information related the Company\' global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk" and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company subject risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the . the future, these laws could have material adverse affect the Company. Changes accounting rules could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. Financial statements are prepared accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject interpretation various governing bodies, including the FASB and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), who interpret and create appropriate accounting regulations. change from current accounting regulations, including accounting for stock-based compensation, could have significant effect the Company\' results operations and could impact the manner which the Company conducts business. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Unanticipated changes the Company\' tax rates could affect its future results. The Company\' future effective tax rates could favorably unfavorably affected unanticipated changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. addition, the Company subject the continuous examination its income tax returns the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for income taxes. There can assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have adverse effect the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company\' stock price may volatile. The Company\' stock has times experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that have been unrelated the operating performance these companies. These factors, including lack positive performance the Company\' stock price, well general economic and political conditions and investors\' concerns regarding the credibility corporate financial reporting and integrity financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price the Company\' stock the future. addition, increases the Company\' stock price may result greater dilution earnings per share. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and its interest rate swap and option positions, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\' short-term investment policy and strategy ensure the preservation capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return light current credit and interest rate trends. The Company benchmarks its performance utilizing external money managers manage small portion the aggregate investment portfolio. The external managers adhere the Company\' investment policies and also provide occasional research and market information that supplements internal research used make credit decisions the investment process. The Company\' exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\' investment portfolio. The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\' general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. September , , $ million the Company\' investment portfolio classified short-term investments had maturities ranging from years. The remainder all had underlying maturities between and months. The Company may sell its investments prior their stated maturities, due liquidity needs, anticipation credit deterioration, for duration management. result such activity, the Company recognized net gains $ million , $ million , and $ million . order provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\' investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact that change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million decline fair value. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Except instances noted above, the Company\' policy hold investments maturity. From time time, the Company has entered into interest rate derivative transactions with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company did not enter into any interest rate derivatives during and had open interest rate derivatives September , . prior years, the Company had entered into interest rate debt swaps with financial institutions. The interest rate debt swaps required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt. Due prevailing market interest rates, during and the Company entered into and then subsequently closed out interest rate debt swap positions realizing gains $ million. The gains were deferred, recognized long-term debt and were amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. order provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\' foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (VAR) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate random market price paths. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\' foreign exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual gains and losses the future associated with the Company\' investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Company\' actual exposures and positions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data User-specified TAGGED TABLE Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page Financial Statements: Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively Inventories Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment, net Goodwill Acquired intangible assets Other assets Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , Current debt \x97 Total current liabilities , , Deferred tax liabilities and other non-current liabilities Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Deferred stock compensation ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Total shareholders\' equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\' equity $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DQ1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share and per share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development Selling, general, and administrative , , , Restructuring costs Purchased -process research and development \x97 \x97 Total operating expenses , , , Operating income (loss) ( ) Other income and expense: Gains (losses) non-current investments, net ( ) Interest and other income, net Total other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Income before accounting changes Cumulative effects accounting changes, net income taxes \x97 \x97 Net income $ $ $ Earnings per common share before accounting changes: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , Diluted , , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DS1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are thousands) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Common Stock Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Deferred Stock Compensation Retained Earnings Total Shareholders\' Equity Shares Amount Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Write-off deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , ( ) \x97 \x97 Settlement forward purchase agreement ( , ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized loss derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income Issuance restricted stock units \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Adjustment common stock related prior year acquisition ( ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DU1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating Activities: Net income Cumulative effects accounting changes, net taxes \x97 ( ) \x97 Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and accretion Stock-based compensation expense Non-cash restructuring Provision for (benefit from) deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) Loss disposition property, plant, and equipment Gains sales short-term investments, net ( ) ( ) ( ) (Gains) losses non-current investments, net ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 ( ) \x97 Purchased -process research and development \x97 \x97 Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable Other liabilities Cash generated operating activities Investing Activities: Purchases short-term investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments , , , Proceeds from sales short-term investments , , Proceeds from sales non-current investments Purchases property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used for business acquisitions \x97 \x97 ( ) Other ( ) Cash generated (used for) investing activities ( , ) ( ) Financing Activities: Payment long-term debt ( ) \x97 \x97 Proceeds from issuance common stock Cash used for repurchase common stock \x97 ( ) \x97 Cash generated financing activities Increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents ( ) , ( ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest $ $ $ Cash paid (received) for income taxes, net $ ( ) $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DW1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops and markets line portable digital music players along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party music and audio books. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its own retail stores, its direct sales force and third-party wholesalers, resellers and value added resellers. addition its own hardware, software and peripheral products, the Company sells variety third-party hardware and software products through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business and government customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Typically, the Company\' fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Fiscal years , and were each -week years. However, approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. The Company expects add this additional week its first fiscal quarter . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity May , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity . SFAS . requires issuers classify liabilities ( assets some circumstances) certain freestanding financial instruments that embody obligations for the issuer and have characteristics both liabilities and equity. The Company adopted the provisions SFAS . June , , which resulted favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment approximately $ million. This adjustment related forward purchase agreement that allowed the Company acquire million shares its common stock average price $ per share for total cost $ million. The Company settled this forward purchase agreement August , which resulted additional gain ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' approximately $ million representing the increase fair value the agreement from June , through the settlement date. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument reported component other comprehensive income shareholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective achieving offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current earnings. For derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments, changes fair value are recognized earnings the current period. accordance with SFAS . , hedges related probable but not firmly committed transactions anticipatory nature are designated and documented hedge inception cash flow hedges and evaluated for hedge effectiveness quarterly. For foreign currency forward contracts designated cash flow hedges, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the forward exchange rate. Changes the expected future cash flows the forecasted hedged transaction and changes the fair value the forward hedge are both measured from the contract rate the forward exchange rate associated with the forward contract\' maturity date. For currency option contracts, hedge effectiveness assessed comparing the present value the cumulative change expected future cash flows the hedged transaction changes expected cash flow the option hedge maturity. The net gains losses derivative instruments qualifying cash flow hedges are reported components other comprehensive income shareholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Any hedge ineffectiveness recognized current earnings other income and expense. For interest rate swap agreements qualifying fair value hedges, the Company assumes ineffectiveness because these swaps meet the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts hedge the translation and economic exposure net investment position foreign subsidiary. For such contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the spot exchange rate. The effective portion the net gain loss derivative instrument designated hedge the net investment position foreign subsidiary reported the same manner foreign currency ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' translation adjustment. Any residual changes fair value the forward contract, including changes fair value based the differential between the spot and forward exchange rates, are recognized current earnings other income and expense. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, from years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from years. Asset Retirement Obligations September , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations , which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies legal obligations associated with the retirement long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal use the assets. SFAS . requires that the fair value liability for asset retirement obligation recognized the period which incurred reasonable estimate fair value can made. The fair value the liability added the carrying amount the associated asset and this additional carrying amount depreciated over the life the asset. All the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. The Company estimated that September , , gross expected future cash flows $ million would required fulfill these obligations. the date adoption, the Company recorded $ million long-term asset retirement liability and corresponding increase leasehold improvements. This amount represents the present value expected future cash flows associated with returning certain the Company\' leased properties original condition. The difference between the gross expected future cash flow $ million and its present value $ million September , , being accreted over the life the related leases operating expense. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment net income during the first quarter approximately $ million. This adjustment represents cumulative depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized through the date adoption SFAS . had the statement been applied the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations the time they were initially incurred. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The following table reconciles changes the Company\' asset retirement liabilities for fiscal and ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Asset retirement liability September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. For the three years ended September , , September , , and September , the Company had material impairment its long-lived assets, except for the impairment certain assets connection with the restructuring actions described Note . The Company adopted SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the first quarter fiscal . SFAS . requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that they may impaired. Prior fiscal , goodwill was amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. The Company completed its transitional goodwill impairment test October , , and its annual goodwill impairment tests August each year thereafter and found impairment. The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. SFAS . also requires that intangible assets with definite lives amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed . The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its international non- . functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged foreign currency translation included "accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" shareholders\' equity. The Company\' foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other international subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' losses from these translations were insignificant and have been included the Company\' results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale products (hardware, software, and peripherals), and extended warranty and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition . The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\' product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. Revenue from extended warranty and support contracts deferred and recognized ratably over the warranty and support periods. These contracts typically include extended phone support, certain repairs, web-based support resources, diagnostic tools, and extend the Company\' one-year basic limited parts and labor warranty. The Company sells software and peripheral products obtained from other companies. The Company establishes its own pricing and retains related inventory risk, the primary obligor sales transactions with its customers, and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenue for the sale products obtained from other companies the gross amount billed. Revenue arrangements that include multiple elements such hardware, software, and services allocated each element based the relative fair value each element, which generally determined vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE). Allocated revenue for each element recognized when revenue recognition criteria have been met for each element. VSOE determined based the price charged when each element sold separately. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\' historical experience. Generally, the Company does not offer specified unspecified upgrade rights its customers connection with software sales the sale extended warranty and support contracts. However, limited number the Company\' software products are available with maintenance agreements that grant customers rights unspecified future upgrades over the maintenance term when and available basis. Revenue associated with such maintenance recognized ratably over the maintenance term. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Shipping Costs The Company\' shipping and handling costs are included cost sales for all periods presented. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized. Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\' technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers pursuant SFAS . , Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . most instances, the Company\' products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally all software development costs have been expensed. During the fourth quarter , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Tiger"), which enhances the features and functionality the previous version Mac , subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration August and subsequent release developer beta version the product, both which were prior the planned release the final version the product the first half calendar year . Therefore, during the fourth quarter , the Company capitalized approximately $ million costs associated with development Tiger. Amortization this asset will begin when Tiger begins shipping and will recognized straight-line over year estimated useful life. During the second quarter , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with FileMaker Pro subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta version, and prior the release the final version the product March . Therefore, during the second quarter , the Company capitalized approximately $ million costs associated with the development FileMaker Pro . accordance with SFAS . , amortization this asset began March when FileMaker Pro was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis over year estimated useful life. During the third and fourth quarters , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Panther"), subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta June , and prior release the final version the product the first quarter . Therefore, during the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with the development Panther. Amortization this asset began the first quarter when Panther was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. During the third and fourth quarters , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Jaguar") subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta May , and prior release the final version the product the fourth quarter . such, the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with development Jaguar. Amortization this asset began the fourth quarter when Jaguar was ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' shipped and being recognized straight-line basis accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. addition, during , the Company also began capitalizing certain costs related development its new PowerSchool enterprise student information system. Capitalization approximately $ million began upon achievement technological feasibility the first quarter . The final version the enterprise student information system was released July . Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million, $ million, and $ million , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Restructuring Charges June , the FASB issued SFAS . , Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit Disposal Activities . SFAS . supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue . - , Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs Exit Activity (Including Certain Costs Associated with Restructuring) and requires that liability for cost associated with exit disposal activity recognized when the liability incurred, opposed when management commits exit plan. SFAS . also establishes that the liability should initially measured and recorded fair value. This Statement was effective for exit disposal activities initiated after December , . The provisions SFAS . were required applied prospectively after the adoption date newly initiated exit activities. Stock-Based Compensation The Company measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees. The Company applies the disclosure provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. The Company has elected follow APB Opinion . because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. required under SFAS . , the pro forma effects stock-based compensation net income and earnings per common share for employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan share purchases have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares amortized pro forma net income (loss) over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value freely traded options that have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected life options and the Company\' expected stock price volatility. Because the Company\' employee stock options and employee ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those freely traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, management\' opinion, the existing models not provide reliable measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares amortized pro forma net income (loss) over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Company\' pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net income\x97 reported $ $ $ Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included reported net income, net tax Deduct: Stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value based method for all awards, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income (loss)\x97pro forma $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Net income per common share\x97 reported Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Net income (loss) per common share\x97pro forma Basic $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted $ $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options, restricted stock and restricted stock units reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company\' common stock can result greater dilutive effect from outstanding options, restricted stock and restricted stock units. Additionally, the exercise employee stock options and the vesting restricted stock and restricted stock units can result greater dilutive effect earnings per share. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share: User-specified TAGGED TABLE For the Years Ended September , September , September , Numerator ( millions): Income before accounting changes $ $ $ Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 Net income $ $ $ Denominator ( thousands): Weighted-average shares outstanding, excluding unvested restricted stock , , , Effect dilutive options, restricted stock units and restricted stock , , , Denominator for diluted earnings per share , , , Basic earnings per share before accounting changes $ $ $ Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 Basic earnings per share after accounting changes $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share before accounting changes $ $ $ Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 Diluted earnings per share after accounting changes $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Potentially dilutive securities, including stock options; restricted stock units; and restricted stock, purchase approximately million, million, and million shares common stock for the years ended September , , September , , and September , , respectively, were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per share for these periods because their effect would have been antidilutive. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. Information about the Company\' products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Note \x97Financial Instruments The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\' cash and available-for-sale securities held its short-term investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments September , , and September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Cash $ $ . Treasury and Agency securities . corporate securities , , Foreign securities Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury and Agency securities , . corporate securities , Foreign securities Total short-term investments , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company\' short-term investment portfolio consists investments . Treasury and Agency securities, . corporate securities, and foreign securities. The Company\' . corporate securities consist primarily commercial paper, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities consist primarily foreign commercial paper, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company had net unrealized losses totaling $ million its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities less than year September , and net unrealized gains $ million its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities greater than year, September , . The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. result such sales, the Company recognized net gains before taxes $ million , $ million and $ million . These net gains were included interest and other income, net. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. accordance with EITF - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application Certain Investments , the following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value the Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' investments, aggregated investment category and length time that individual securities have been continuous unrealized loss position September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss . Treasury and Agencies $ , $ ( ) $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ ( ) Corporate bonds \x97 ( ) ( ) Certificate deposits ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Asset backed securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Commercial paper , ( ) \x97 \x97 , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Market values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. The declines value these investments primarily related changes interest rates and are considered temporary nature. Investments are reviewed periodically identify possible impairment. When evaluating the investments, the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition the investee, and the Company\' ability and intent hold the investment for period time which may sufficient for anticipated recovery market value. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe and Asia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\' direct customers. These credit financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. customer accounted for more than % trade receivables September , . Trade receivables from single customer, Ingram Micro, Inc., accounted for approximately % net accounts receivable September , . The following table summarizes the activity the allowance for doubtful accounts ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Beginning allowance balance $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Deductions ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending allowance balance $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these raw material components directly from suppliers. These non-trade receivables, which are included the consolidated balance sheets other current assets, totaled $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The Company does not recognize any profits these sales reflect the sale these components its net sales. Inventory Prepayment April , the Company made $ million prepayment Asian supplier for the purchase components over the following nine months. return for this deposit, the supplier agreed supply the Company with specified level components during the three consecutive fiscal quarters ended December , . During the first six months , the remaining $ million the deposit balance was fully utilized for the purchase components. The deposit was unsecured and had stated interest component. The Company imputed amount cost sales and interest income during each period the deposit was outstanding % interest rate reflect the economics this transaction. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Foreign currency forward and option contracts are used offset the foreign exchange risk certain existing assets and liabilities and hedge the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenue and cost sales. From time time, the Company enters into interest rate derivative agreements modify the interest rate profile certain investments and debt. The Company\' accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the balance sheet fair value. The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Foreign exchange instruments qualifying accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Purchased options $ $ $ $ $ $ Sold options $ $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Foreign exchange instruments other than accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ $ $ $ $ Purchased options $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ \x97 Sold options $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\' gross exposure ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. Foreign Exchange Risk Management The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risk associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions and forecasted future cash flows. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\' . dollar functional subsidiaries hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenues, and the Company\' non- . dollar functional subsidiaries selling local currencies hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\' functional currency. Other comprehensive income associated with hedges foreign currency revenues recognized component net sales the same period the related sales are recognized, and other comprehensive income related inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Typically, the Company hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenues and inventory purchases over time horizon months. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must dedesignated hedges when probable that the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with such derivative instruments are immediately reclassified into earnings other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are also reflected current earnings unless they are redesignated hedges other transactions. During , the Company recorded net losses $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. net gains, losses, similar nature were recorded . During , the Company recorded net gains $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. September , , the Company had net deferred loss associated with cash flow hedges approximately $ million, net taxes, substantially all which expected reclassified earnings the end the second quarter fiscal . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts hedge the translation and economic exposure net investment position foreign subsidiary. The Company may also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the remeasurement certain recorded assets and liabilities non-functional currencies. Changes the fair value these derivatives are recognized current earnings other income and expense offsets the changes the fair value the related assets liabilities. Due market movements, changes option time value can lead increased volatility other income and expense. Interest Rate Risk Management From time time, the Company historically entered into interest rate derivative transactions with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense any outstanding long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. prior years, the Company had entered into interest rate debt swaps with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income cash equivalents and short term investments with its fixed rate interest expense its long term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short term . interest rates. The interest rate swaps required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt. Due prevailing market interest rates, during and the Company entered into and then subsequently closed out interest rate debt swap positions realizing gains $ million which were deferred over the remaining life the debt. September , and September , , the Company had interest rate derivatives outstanding. Debt February , the Company retired $ million debt outstanding the form % unsecured notes. The notes were originally issued and were sold % par for effective yield maturity %. September , , the carrying amount these notes, including unamortized deferred gains associated with closed debt interest rate swaps, was $ million, respectively, while the fair value was $ million. The fair value the notes was based their listed market values September , . Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments and Related Gains and Losses The Company has held significant investments ARM Holdings plc (ARM), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai) and EarthLink Network, Inc. (EarthLink). These investments have been reflected the consolidated balance sheets long term assets within other assets and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. All realized gains the sale these investments have been included other income and expense. fiscal , the Company sold all its remaining non-current investments public companies. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' EarthLink January , the Company invested $ million EarthLink, Internet service provider (ISP). The investment was EarthLink\' Series Convertible Preferred Stock, which was convertible the Company after January , , into approximately million shares EarthLink common stock. Concurrent with this investment, EarthLink and the Company entered into multi-year agreement deliver ISP service Macintosh users the . Under the terms the agreement, the Company profits from each new Macintosh customer that subscribes EarthLink\' ISP service for specified period time, and EarthLink the default ISP the Company\' Internet Setup Software included with all Macintosh computers sold the . During the first quarter , the Company sold , , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, amount that approximated the Company\' carrying value the shares. During the third quarter , the Company sold all its remaining holdings EarthLink, consisting , , shares stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales EarthLink were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined that the then current decline the fair value its investment EarthLink was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment EarthLink $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company held million shares EarthLink stock valued $ million. Akamai June , the Company invested $ million Akamai, global Internet content delivery service. The investment was the form convertible preferred stock that converted into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits) the time Akamai\' initial public offering October . Beginning the first quarter , the Company categorized its shares Akamai available-for-sale. During , the Company sold its remaining , shares Akamai stock. The transaction generated proceeds approximately $ million and gain before taxes approximately $ million. During the fourth quarter , the Company sold , , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ million. September , , the Company\' remaining investment Akamai consisted , shares Akamai stock valued $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales Akamai were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined the decline the fair value its investment Akamai was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment Akamai $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT ARM ARM publicly held company the . involved the design and licensing high performance microprocessors and related technology. During the third quarter , the Company sold all its remaining holdings ARM stock, consisting , shares for net proceeds approximately $ , , and gain before taxes $ , . During the first quarter , the Company sold million shares ARM stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. sales ARM were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . Other Strategic Investments The Company has made additional minority debt and equity investments several privately held technology companies, which were reflected the consolidated balance sheets other assets. These investments were inherently risky because the products and markets these companies were typically not fully developed. During , the Company determined the decline fair value certain these investments was other-than-temporary and, accordingly, recognized charge earnings $ million. These charges were included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company had $ million equity investments reflected its consolidated balance sheet. September , , the Company had private debt equity investments reflected its consolidated balance sheet. Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) Inventories User-specified TAGGED TABLE Purchased parts $ $ Work process \x97 Finished goods Total inventories $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Other Current Assets User-specified TAGGED TABLE Vendor non-trade receivables $ $ Other current assets Total other current assets $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Property, Plant, and Equipment User-specified TAGGED TABLE Land and buildings $ $ Machinery, equipment, and internal-use software Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Other Assets User-specified TAGGED TABLE Non-current deferred tax assets $ $ Capitalized software development costs, net Other assets Total other assets $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued Expenses User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred revenue $ $ Accrued marketing and distribution Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued warranty and related costs Other current liabilities Total accrued expenses $ , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Interest and Other Income, Net User-specified TAGGED TABLE Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 Total interest and other income, net $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Note \x97Acquisitions Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. The Company ceased amortization goodwill the beginning fiscal when adopted SFAS . . The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Goodwill ( ) $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ Other acquired intangible assets ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 Acquired technology ( ) ( ) Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Accumulated amortization related goodwill $ million arising prior the adoption SFAS . has been reflected the gross carrying amount goodwill September , and September , . During the third quarter , the Company recorded adjustment approximately $ million goodwill related the acquisition PowerSchool, Inc (PowerSchool) fiscal . This reduction goodwill included the cancellation , shares Apple common stock, valued approximately $ million, that were previously held escrow and were refunded upon resolution certain matters arising out the acquisition PowerSchool. This adjustment also included approximately $ million adjust the original estimates the pre-acquisition PowerSchool restructuring liability actual costs incurred. Expected annual amortization expense related acquired technology follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years: $ Thereafter Total expected annual amortization expense $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Other acquired intangible assets amortization $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Acquired technology amortization Total amortization $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Acquisition Emagic GmbH During the fourth quarter , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH (Emagic), provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ million which was paid immediately upon closing the deal and $ million which was held-back for future payment contingent continued employment certain employees that would allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the following years. During fiscal , contingent consideration totaling $ million was paid. The acquisition has been accounted for purchase. The portion the purchase price allocated purchased -process research and development (IPR& ) was expensed immediately, and the portion the purchase price allocated acquired technology and tradename will amortized over their estimated useful lives years. Goodwill associated with the acquisition Emagic not subject amortization pursuant the provisions SFAS . . Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible assets acquired $ Acquired technology Tradename -process research and development Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates primarily Emagic\' Logic series technology and extensions. the date the acquisition, the products under development were between %- % complete, and was expected that the remaining work would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ , . The remaining efforts, which were completed , included finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined using income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Acquisition certain assets Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail During fiscal the Company acquired certain technology and patent rights Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail Corporation for total $ million cash. These transactions have been accounted for asset acquisitions. The purchase price for these asset acquisitions, except for $ million identified contingent consideration which would allocated compensation expense over the following years, has been allocated acquired technology and would amortized straight-line basis over years, except for certain assets acquired from Zayante associated with patent royalty streams that would amortized over years. Acquisition Nothing Real, LLC During the second quarter , the Company acquired certain assets Nothing Real, LLC (Nothing Real), privately-held company that develops and markets high performance tools designed for the digital image creation market. the $ million purchase price, the Company has allocated $ million acquired technology, which will amortized over its estimated life years. The remaining $ million, which has been identified contingent consideration, rather than recorded additional component ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' the cost the acquired assets, would allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the following years. Note \x97Restructuring Charges Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations. the $ million charge, $ million had been spent the end , with the remaining $ million consisting $ million for employee severance benefits and $ million for lease cancellations. During the fourth quarter , the Company recognized restructuring expense $ million. conjunction with the European workforce reduction during the second quarter , the Company vacated leased sales facility during the fourth quarter resulting charge $ million for contract termination and asset impairment costs. The Company also recognized employee termination costs $ million related the elimination non-essential positions, principally Europe. addition, the Company reversed $ , excess restructuring expense from prior periods related primarily lower than expected disposal costs Sacramento manufacturing-related fixed assets. The net cost the restructuring plans for the fourth quarter was $ million, which $ , had been paid prior the end . These actions will result the termination positions, which had been terminated prior the end . During the third quarter , the Company finalized restructuring plans related closing Company-owned manufacturing activities Sacramento. addition, the Company\' management approved restructuring plans related certain headcount reductions primarily for various sales and marketing activities principally the . Total cost the restructuring plan for the third quarter was $ million, which $ million had been paid prior the end . These actions will result the termination positions, which had been terminated prior the end . The closing manufacturing operations Sacramento resulted the elimination positions for severance cost $ million and write-off $ million manufacturing-related fixed assets whose use ceased during the third quarter . Termination sales and marketing activities, principally the ., resulted severance $ million for the elimination positions. During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved restructuring plans related the termination Company-owned manufacturing activities Sacramento and headcount reductions related primarily various sales and marketing activities the . and Europe. Total cost the actions was $ million for the termination positions. the end the fourth quarter , $ million had been spent and positions had been eliminated related these actions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during fiscal ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Employee Severance Benefits Asset Impairments Lease Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments ( ) ( ) \x97 ( ) Accrual September , $ $ \x97 $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million charge write-off deferred compensation, $ million asset impairments and $ million charge for lease cancellations. the $ million charge, all had been spent the end , except for approximately $ million related operating lease costs abandoned facilities. During the third quarter , approximately $ , the amount originally accrued for lease cancellations was determined excess due the sublease property sooner than originally estimated and shortfall approximately $ , was identified the severance accrual due higher than expected severance costs related the closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations. These adjustments had net effect reported operating expense. During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions that resulted recognition total restructuring charge $ million, including $ million severance costs and $ , for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. Actions taken the second quarter were for the most part supplemental actions initiated the prior two quarters and focused further headcount reductions various sales and marketing functions the Company\' Americas and Europe operating segments and further reductions associated with PowerSchool-related activities the Americas operating segment, including accrual for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. The second quarter actions resulted the termination employees. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost $ million that resulted the termination manufacturing operations the Company-owned facility Singapore, further reductions headcount resulting from the shift PowerSchool product strategy that took place the end fiscal , and termination various sales and marketing activities the . and Europe. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination positions worldwide. Closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations resulted severance costs $ million and costs $ million write-off manufacturing related fixed assets, whose use ceased during the first quarter. PowerSchool related costs included severance approximately $ , and recognition $ million previously deferred stock compensation that arose when PowerSchool was acquired the Company related certain PowerSchool employee stockholders who were terminated the first quarter . Termination sales and marketing activities and employees, principally the . and Europe, resulted severance costs $ million and accrual costs associated with operating leases ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' closed facilities $ million. The total net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the first quarter also reflects the reversal $ , unused restructuring accrual originally made during the first quarter . The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during fiscal ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Employee Severance Benefits Deferred Compensation Write-off Asset Impairments Lease Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 Accrual September , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Restructuring Actions During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. During the fourth quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million designed reduce headcount costs corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million, all which were eliminated September , . Eliminated positions were primarily corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development the Americas operating segment. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool\' PSE product. This shift resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the PSE product the amount $ million. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. The Company ceased using the assets associated with first quarter restructuring actions during that same quarter. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled $ million. The first quarter restructuring actions were primarily related corporate activity not allocated operating segments. During the first quarter , the Company reversed the remaining unused accrual $ , . All amounts associated with the fiscal restructuring actions had been spent the end fiscal . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Federal: Current $ $ $ Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) State: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million and $ million , , and , respectively. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' September , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves Basis capital assets and investments Tax losses and credits Other Total deferred tax assets Less valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire from through . portion these carryforwards was acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has Federal credit carryforwards and various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . The remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates primarily the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Computed expected tax $ $ $ State taxes, net federal effect ( ) ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( ) ( ) \x97 Nondeductible executive compensation ( ) Stock repurchase \x97 ( ) \x97 Purchase accounting and asset acquisitions \x97 Change valuation allowance \x97 \x97 ( ) Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible expenses Other items Provision for income taxes $ $ $ Effective tax rate % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its field audit the Company\' federal income tax returns for all years prior and proposed certain adjustments. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for these years have been resolved. addition, the Company also subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\' tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Note \x97Shareholders\' Equity Restricted Stock Units During fiscal , the Company\' Board Directors approved the grant million restricted stock units selected members the Company\' senior management, excluding its Chief Executive Officer (CEO). These restricted stock units generally vest two equal installments the second and fourth anniversaries the date grant. The Company has recorded the $ million value these restricted stock units component shareholders\' equity and will amortize that amount straight-line basis over the year requisite service period. The value the restricted stock units was based the closing market price the Company\' common stock the date grant. Quarterly amortization will approximately $ million, which approximately $ million will included cost sales; $ million will included research and development expense; and the remaining $ million will included selling, general and administrative expense. The restricted stock units have been included the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. CEO Restricted Stock Award March , , the Company entered into Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the Agreement) with . Steven . Jobs, its CEO. The Agreement cancelled stock option ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' awards for the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock previously granted . Jobs and . . Jobs retained options purchase , shares the Company\' common stock granted August his capacity member the Company\' Board Directors, prior becoming the Company\' CEO. The Agreement replaced the cancelled options with restricted stock award million shares the Company\' common stock. The restricted stock award generally vests three years from date grant. Vesting some all the restricted shares will accelerated the event . Jobs terminated without cause, dies, has his management role reduced following change control the Company. The Company has recorded the value the restricted stock award $ million component shareholders\' equity and amortizing that amount straight-line basis over the year service period. The value the restricted stock award was based the closing market price the Company\' common stock $ the date the award. Amortization expense for this award, which amounts approximately $ million per quarter, has been included selling, general, and administrative expense beginning March and will continue included through March . The million restricted shares have been included the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company\' common stock had fair value $ . Other than this forward purchase transaction, the Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock since fiscal . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . Preferred Stock The Company has million shares authorized preferred stock, none which outstanding. Under the terms the Company\' Restated Articles Incorporation, the Board Directors authorized determine alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions the Company\' authorized but unissued shares preferred stock. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The following table summarizes the components accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net taxes ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ $ Unrealized losses derivative investments ( ) ( ) ( ) Cumulative foreign currency translation ( ) ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related available-for-sale securities, net taxes ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change fair value available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Adjustment for net (gains) losses realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain loss available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities was $ million, $ million, and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The tax effect the reclassification adjustment for net gains (losses) included net income was $ million, $( ) million and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Changes fair value derivatives $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Adjustment for net gains(losses) realized and included net income ( ) Change unrealized gain loss derivative instruments $ $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $ million, $11million and $( ) million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains (losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income was $( ) million, $( ) million and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans Employee Stock Option Plan the Annual Meeting Shareholders held April , , the shareholders approved amendment the Executive Officer Stock Plan change the name the plan the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), provide for broad-based grants all employees addition executive officers and other key employees and prohibit future "repricings" employee stock options, including -months-plus- -day option exchange programs, without shareholder approval. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' either annual quarterly vesting. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. result shareholder approval amendments the Executive Officer Stock Plan April , the Company terminated the Employee Stock Option Plan and cancelled all remaining unissued shares totaling , , following the completion employee stock option exchange program October . Employee Stock Option Exchange Program March , , the Company announced voluntary employee stock option exchange program (the Exchange Program) whereby eligible employees, other than executive officers and members the Board Directors, had opportunity exchange outstanding options with exercise prices above $ per share for predetermined smaller number new stock options issued with exercise prices equal the fair market value one share the Company\' common stock the day the new awards are issued, which was least six months plus one day after the exchange options are cancelled. April , , accordance with the Exchange Program, the Company cancelled options purchase , , shares its common stock. October , , new stock options totaling , , shares were issued employees exercise price $ per share, which equivalent the closing price the Company\' stock that date. financial accounting impact the Company\' financial position, results operations cash flow was associated with this transaction. Director Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors adopted shareholder approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP) for non-employee directors the Company. Initial grants , options under the DSOP vest three equal installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant, and subsequent annual grants , options are fully vested grant. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans Certain the Company\' executive officers, including . Timothy . Cook, . Jonathan Rubinstein, . Bertrand Serlet, and . Avadis Tevanian, ., have entered into trading plans pursuant Rule 10b5- ( )( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended. trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company\' stock including the exercise and sale employee stock options and shares acquired pursuant the Company\' employee stock purchase plan and upon vesting restricted stock units. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end six month offering periods. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' $ , any calendar year. Beginning with the six-month offering period that started June , , the number shares authorized for issuance limited total million shares per offering period. During , , and , million, million, and million, respectively were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Stock Option Activity summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , , September , and September , follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Outstanding Options Shares Available for Grant Number Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Balance September , , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Restricted Stock Granted ( , ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Restricted Stock Units Granted ( , ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT The options outstanding September , have been segregated into five ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Outstanding September , Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Life Years Weighted Average Exercise Price Options Exercisable September , Weighted Average Exercise Price $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company had exercisable options purchase million shares outstanding with weighted average exercise price $ per share. September , , the Company had exercisable options purchase million shares outstanding with weighted average exercise price $ per share. The Company had million restricted stock units outstanding September , , which were excluded from the options outstanding balances the preceding tables. None these restricted stock units were vested September , . The grant these restricted stock units has been deducted from the shares available for grant under the Company\' stock option plans. Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation The Company has provided pro forma disclosures Note these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value method accounting for stock compensation had been used for its employee stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan purchases. These pro forma effects have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the option awards issued October and the awards cancelled part the Employee Stock Option Exchange Program have been accounted for using modification accounting. accordance with SFAS . , the grant date the awards issued the date acceptance the exchange offer participating employees. The cancellation certain the Company\' CEO\' options and replacement with restricted shares March also being accounted for using modification accounting for purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Expected life stock options years - years years Expected life stock purchases months months months Interest rate\x97stock options %- % %- % % Interest rate\x97stock purchases %- % %- % % Volatility\x97stock options % %- % % Volatility\x97stock purchases %- % %- % % Dividend yields \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value stock purchases during the year $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the expected volatility assumptions used the Company prior the third quarter had been based solely the historical volatility the Company\' common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life the Company\' stock options. Beginning the third quarter , the Company has modified this approach consider other relevant factors including implied volatility market traded options the Company\' common stock and the impact unusual fluctuations not reasonably expected recur the historical volatility the Company\' common stock. The Company will continue monitor these and other relevant factors developing the expected volatility assumption used value future awards. Beginning the third quarter , the Company shortened its estimate the expected life new options granted its employees from years years. The Company bases its expected life assumption its historical experience and the terms and conditions the stock options grants employees. The change the expected life assumption made during the third quarter was the result the expected impact shortening the contractual life new options granted employees from years years and changing the vesting provisions new options granted employees from year straight-line annual vesting year straight-line quarterly vesting. Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance-sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\' total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ million, which $ million related leases for retail space. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued Warranty and Indemnifications The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\' typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future expectations. The following table reconciles changes the Company\' accrued warranties and related costs ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ Cost warranty claims ( ) ( ) ( ) Accruals for product warranties Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\' CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, the majority which occurs various parts Asia. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. Contingencies Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the . District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company believes these claims are without merit and intends defend them vigorously. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave Plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. Plaintiffs filed their amended complaint January , , and March , , the Company filed motion dismiss the amended complaint. The Court heard the Company\' motion July , and dismissed Plaintiffs\' claims with prejudice August , . Plaintiffs have appealed the ruling. The Company subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates including various European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the . Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations and financial position. Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data accordance with SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , the Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan and excludes revenue from the Company\' own retail stores Japan, which included the Company\' Retail segment. The Retail segment operated Apple-owned retail stores the . and Japan during fiscal . Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , "Summary Significant Accounting Policies," except described below for the Retail segment. The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales. The Retail segment\' performance also evaluated based operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, manufacturing costs not included standard costs, income taxes, and various nonrecurring charges. Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and retail store construction- -progress that not subject depreciation. Except for the Retail segment, capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Capital expenditures the Retail segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Operating income for all segments, except Retail, includes cost sales manufacturing standard cost, other cost sales, related sales and marketing costs, and certain general and administrative costs. This measure operating income, which includes manufacturing profit, provides comparable basis for comparison between the Company\' various geographic segments. Certain manufacturing expenses and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' related adjustments not included segment cost sales, including variances between standard and actual manufacturing costs and the mark- above standard cost for product supplied the Retail segment, are included corporate expenses. Management assesses the operating performance the Retail segment differently than assesses the operating performance the Company\' geographic segments. The Retail segment revenue and operating income intended depict comparable measure that the Company\' major channel partners the . operating retail stores the Company can evaluate the Retail segment performance were channel partner. Therefore, the Company makes three significant adjustments the Retail segment for management reporting purposes that are not included the results the Company\' other segments. First, the Retail segment\' operating income includes cost sales for Apple products amount normally charged major channel partners the . operating retail stores, less the cost sales programs and incentives provided those channel partners and the Company\' cost support those partners. For the years ended September , , September , , and September , , this resulted the recognition additional cost sales above standard cost the Retail segment and offsetting benefit corporate expenses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Second, the Company\' extended warranty, support and service contracts are transferred the Retail segment the same cost that charged the Company\' major retail channel partners the ., resulting comparable measure revenue and gross margin between the Company\' Retail stores and those retail channel partners. The Retail segment recognizes the full amount revenue and cost sales the time sale the Company\' extended warranty, support and service contracts. Because the Company has not yet earned the revenue incurred the costs associated with the sale these contracts, offset these amounts recognized other operating segments\' net sales and cost sales. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment, with corresponding offsets other operating segments, $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , the net sales and cost sales recognized the Retail segment for sales extended warranty, support and service contracts were $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment $ million and $ million, respectively. Third, the Company has opened six high profile stores New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco, Tokyo, Japan and Osaka, Japan September , and has additional store under development London, England, which expected open the end calendar year . These high profile stores are larger than the Company\' typical retail stores and were designed further promote brand awareness and provide venue for certain corporate sales and marketing activities, including corporate briefings. such, the Company allocates certain operating expenses associated with these stores corporate marketing expense reflect the estimated benefit realized Company-wide. The allocation these operating costs based the excess amount incurred for high profile store that more typical Company retail location. Expenses allocated corporate marketing resulting from the operations these stores were $ million, $ million and $ million for the years ended September , , September , , and September , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Summary information operating segment follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ $ $ Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Japan: Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Retail: Net sales $ , $ $ Operating income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Depreciation, amortization and accretion ( ) $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ $ $ Other Segments ( ): Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the . Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. Retail store construction- -progress, which not subject depreciation, reflected corporate assets. ( ) Other Segments include Asia-Pacific and FileMaker. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' reconciliation the Company\' segment operating income and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Segment operating income $ $ $ Corporate expenses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Purchased -process research and development \x97 \x97 ( ) Restructuring costs ( ) ( ) ( ) Consolidated operating income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ Segment assets $ , $ , $ Corporate assets , $ , $ , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Corporate depreciation, amortization and accretion Consolidated depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE large portion the Company\' net sales derived from its international operations. Also, majority the raw materials used the Company\' products obtained from sources outside the ., and majority the products sold the Company assembled internationally the Company\' facility Cork, Ireland third-party vendors Taiwan, Korea, the Netherlands, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , . Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the ., Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: . $ , $ , $ , Japan Other Countries , , , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , Long-Lived Assets: . $ $ $ Japan Other Countries Total Long-Lived Assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: Power Macintosh ( ) $ , $ , $ , PowerBook , , iMac ( ) , , iBook Total Macintosh Net Sales $ , $ , $ , iPod , Other Music Products ( ) Peripherals and other hardware ( ) Software ( ) Service and other Net Sales Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Includes Xserve product line. ( ) Includes eMac product line. ( ) Other Music Products includes iTunes Music Store sales and iPod related services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod-related accessories. ( ) Net sales peripherals and other hardware include sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Net sales software include sales Apple-branded operating system and application software and sales third-party software. Note \x97Related Party Transactions and Certain Other Transactions March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its CEO, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement became effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . The Company recognized total $ , , $ , , and $ , , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during , and , respectively. All expenses recognized pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement have been included selling, general, and administrative expenses the consolidated statements operations. connection with relocation assistance package, the Company May loaned . Ronald . Johnson, Senior Vice President, Retail, $ million for the purchase his principal residence. The loan was secured deed trust and was due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. . Johnson repaid $ , this loan fiscal and repaid the remaining balance $ , fiscal . . Jerome York, member the Board Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. (MicroWarehouse) January . Until September , , also served Microwarehouse\' Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse was reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products, including products made the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Company. September , , CDW Corporation (CDW), acquired selected North American assets MicroWarehouse. MicroWarehouse subsequently filed for Chapter bankruptcy protection the . MicroWarehouse accounted for approximately %, % and % the Company\' net sales for the years ended September , , September , , and September , , respectively. Trade receivables from MicroWarehouse were $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The Company has provided what believes adequate allowance the outstanding receivable based the Company\' secured interest position selected MicroWarehouse assets and the expected payments unsecured creditors. Sales MicroWarehouse and related trade receivables were generally subject the same terms and conditions those with the Company\' other resellers. addition, the Company has purchased miscellaneous equipment and supplies from MicroWarehouse. Total purchases amounted approximately $ million and $ million for the years ended September , and September , , respectively. purchases were made the Company from MicroWarehouse fiscal . Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income (loss) $ $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income during the fourth, third, and second quarters included restructuring charges, net tax, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Net income during the fourth and third quarters included after-tax net gains related non-current investments $ million and $ million, respectively. Net income for the fourth quarter also included settlement the Company\' forward purchase agreement resulting gain $ million and favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment related the adoption SFAS . $ million. Net income (loss) during the second and first quarters included restructuring charges, net tax, $ million and $ million, respectively. Net loss for the first quarter included after-tax unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment for the adoption SFAS $ million. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the consolidated financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method accounting for asset retirement obligations and for financial instruments with characteristics both liabilities and equity and changed its method accounting for goodwill . User-specified TAGGED TABLE / / KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Mountain View, California October , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. Item . Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\' management, the Company\' principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\' disclosure controls and procedures ( defined under the Securities Exchange Act , amended ( Exchange Act )) were effective September , ensure that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. There were significant changes the Company\' internal control over financial reporting identified management\' evaluation during the fourth quarter fiscal that have materially affected are reasonably likely materially affect the Company\' internal control over financial reporting. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\' seven directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Position With the Company Age Director Since Fred . Anderson Director William . Campbell Director Millard . Drexler Director Albert Gore, . Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson Director Jerome . York Director end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Fred . Anderson has been founding partner Elevation Partners, private equity firm focused the media and entertainment industry, since July . Previously, . Anderson served the Company\' Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April June . . Anderson also serves the Board Directors eBay Inc. and piphany, Inc. William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("Intuit") since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the Board Directors Opsware, Inc. Millard . Drexler has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Crew Group, Inc. since January . Previously, . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . Albert Gore, . has served Senior Advisor Google, Inc. since . has also served Executive Chairman INdTV since and Chairman Generation Investment Management since . visiting professor Fisk University and Middle Tennessee State University. . Gore was inaugurated the 45th Vice President the . . was -elected and served for total eight years President the Senate, member the Cabinet and the National Security Council. Prior , served eight years the . Senate and eight years the . House Representatives. Steven . Jobs one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. (" NeXT" ) and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. Arthur . Levinson, . has been Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. (" Genentech" ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . . Levinson also serves the Board Directors Google, Inc. Jerome . York has been Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Capital Corporation, private investment company which controls, since September . From January until September , . York was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer MicroWarehouse, Inc., reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products. From September October , was Vice Chairman Tracinda ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Corporation. From May September was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IBM Corporation, and served member IBM\' Board Directors from January August . . York also director Tyco International Ltd. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. Role the Board; Corporate Governance Matters the paramount duty the Board Directors oversee the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management the competent and ethical operation the Company day- -day basis and assure that the long-term interests the shareholders are being served. satisfy this duty, the directors take proactive, focused approach their position, and set standards ensure that the Company committed business success through maintenance the highest standards responsibility and ethics. Members the Board bring the Company wide range experience, knowledge and judgment. These varied skills mean that good governance depends far more than "check the box" approach standards procedures. The governance structure the Company designed working structure for principled actions, effective decision-making and appropriate monitoring both compliance and performance. The key practices and procedures the Board are outlined the Corporate Governance Guidelines available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Board Committees The Board has standing Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (" Nominating Committee" ) and Audit and Finance Committee (" Audit Committee "). The Compensation Committee primarily responsible for reviewing the compensation arrangements for the Company\' executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and for administering the Company\' stock option plans. Members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler and Gore. The Nominating Committee assists the Board identifying qualified individuals become directors, determines the composition the Board and its committees, monitors the process assess Board effectiveness and helps develop and implement the Company\' corporate governance guidelines. Members the Nominating Committee are Messrs. Drexler and Gore and . Levinson. The Audit Committee primarily responsible for overseeing the services performed the Company\' independent auditors and internal audit department, evaluating the Company\' accounting policies and its system internal controls and reviewing significant financial transactions. Members the Audit Committee are Messrs. Campbell and York and . Levinson. The Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees operate under written charters adopted the Board. These charters are available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Audit Committee Financial Expert While more than one member the Company\' Audit Committee qualifies "audit committee financial expert" under Item ( ) Regulation - , . Jerome . York, the Committee chairperson, the designated audit committee financial expert. . York considered "independent" the term used Item ( )( )( ) Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act. Code Ethics The Company has code ethics that applies all the Company\' employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and its Board Directors. copy this code, "Ethics: The Way Business Worldwide" available the Company\' website www apple com investor. The Company intends disclose any changes waivers from its code ethics posting such information its website filing Form - . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled " Directors ." Timothy . Cook , Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation (" Compaq" ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (" ADP" ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, iPod Division (age ), joined the Company February . . Rubinstein also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering. Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that, . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Bertrand Serlet, . , Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. NeXT, . Serlet held several engineering and managerial positions, including Director Web Engineering. Prior NeXT, from , . Serlet worked research engineer Xerox PARC. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. . Tevanian served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Software Engineering from July . With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. Item . Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the " Named Executive Officers" ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE User-specified TAGGED TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Restricted Stock Award ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer \x97 \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , , \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 , , ( ) \x97 \x97 , , ( ) Timothy . Cook Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Ronald . Johnson Senior Vice President, Retail , , , , , , , \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 Jonathan Rubinstein Senior Vice President, iPod Division , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Avadis Tevanian, . Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer , , , , \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. March , the Board awarded . Jobs five million restricted shares the Company\' Common Stock, that generally vest full the third anniversary the grant date. ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for past services the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . fiscal , approximately $ million paid the Company towards the purchase the plane and approximately $ million related tax assistance was reported income . Jobs. ( ) Market value restricted stock units granted March , (based $ per share, the closing price the Company\' common stock the NASDAQ National Market the day grant). Restricted stock units generally vest over four years with % the total number shares vesting each the second and fourth anniversary the grant date. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. Option Grants Last Fiscal Year There were options granted the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year , although restricted stock units which are shown above the Summary Compensation Table, were granted. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES User-specified TAGGED TABLE Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name Shares Acquired Exercise (#) Value Realized ($) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , ( ) \x97 $ , , ( ) $ \x97 Timothy . Cook , , , , \x97 , $ \x97 $ , , Ronald . Johnson \x97 \x97 , , , $ , , $ , , Jonathan . Rubinstein , , , , , , $ , , $ , , Avadis Tevanian, . , , , , , , $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the NASDAQ National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Consists , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. Director Compensation The form and amount director compensation determined the Board after review recommendations made the Nominating Committee. The current practice the Board base substantial portion director\' annual retainer equity. , shareholders approved the Director Stock Option Plan (the " Director Plan" ) and , shares were reserved for issuance thereunder. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board (" Initial Options" ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock (" Annual Options" ). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Non-employee directors also receive $ , annual retainer paid quarterly increments. addition, directors receive two free computer systems per year and are eligible purchase additional equipment discount. Directors not receive any additional consideration for serving committees committee chairperson. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. William . Campbell, Millard . Drexler, and Albert Gore, ., none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered "independent" directors under the applicable NASDAQ rules. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee. executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information November , (the " Table Date ") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading " Executive Compensation; " and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. addition, unless otherwise indicated, all persons named below can reached Apple Computer, Inc., Infinite Loop, Cupertino, . Security Ownership % Holders, Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Private Capital Management, Inc. , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson , * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Albert Gore, . , ( ) * Ronald . Johnson , , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Jonathan . Rubinstein , ( ) * Avadis Tevanian, . , , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , ( ) % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form - showing holdings September , Private Capital Management, Inc. Private Capital Management, Inc. lists its address Pelican Bay Blvd., Naples, , , such filing. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Campbell has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Gore has the right acquire exercise stock options. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that . Johnson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock that . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that . Tevanian has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . York has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that executive officers directors have the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (" SEC "). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that all Section ( ) filing requirements were met during fiscal year . Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\' equity compensation plans. User-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Options ( ) Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding Options ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , , $ \x97 Total equity compensation plans( ) , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan and , , shares available for issuance under the Employee Stock Plan. The grant , , shares restricted stock units have been deducted from the number shares available for future issuance. does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan which was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' ( ) This table does not include , outstanding options assumed connection with mergers and acquisitions the companies which originally established those plans. These assumed options have weighted average exercise price $ per share. additional options may granted under those assumed plans. Arrangements with Named Executive Officers Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options, Restricted Stock, and Restricted Stock Units the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options, restricted stock grants, and restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers generally provide that the event there "change control," defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control," their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason," those options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units outstanding that are not yet vested the date such "change control" shall become fully vested. Further, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers also provide that, the event the Company terminates the Officer without cause any time, the restricted stock units and restricted stock will vest full. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, Retail) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan was secured deed trust and was due and payable May . The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , . . Johnson repaid the Company $ , during the fiscal year and the loan has been repaid full. March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Item . Principal Accountant Fees and Services The following table sets forth the fees paid the Company\' independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, during fiscal years and . Audit and Non-Audit Fees User-specified TAGGED TABLE Audit Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , Audit-Related Fees , ( ) , Tax Fees , ( ) , , All Other Fees \x97 \x97 Total $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Audit fees relate professional services rendered connection with the audit the Company\' annual financial statements, quarterly review financial statements included the Company\' Forms - , and audit services provided connection with other statutory and regulatory filings. ( ) Audit-related fees include professional services related the audit the Company\' financial statements, consultation accounting standards transactions, and audits employee benefit plans. ( ) Tax fees include $ , for professional services rendered connection with tax compliance and preparation relating the Company\' expatriate program, tax audits and international tax compliance; and $ , for tax consulting and planning services relating interest computations and international tax changes. The Company does not engage KPMG perform personal tax services for its executive officers. Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Prior the enactment the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the " Act "), the Company adopted auditor independence policy that banned its auditors from performing non-financial consulting services, such information technology consulting and internal audit services. This auditor policy also mandates that the audit and non-audit services and the related budget approved the Audit Committee advance, and that the Audit Committee provided with quarterly reporting actual spending. This policy also mandates that auditor engagements for non-audit services may entered into without the express approval the Audit Committee. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. ( ) Index Exhibits User-specified TAGGED TABLE Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Filing Date/ Period End Date Filed herewith Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . - -Laws the Company, amended through June , . - Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York. - Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Form the Company\' / % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. - Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. - Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - - Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - - Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. - Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . - Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through April , . - Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. - insert table folio ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]JA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' end table folio Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . - Director Stock Option Plan. - Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through April , . - Reimbursement Agreement dated May , and between the Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement dated March , and between The Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - Form Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement - Custom Sales Agreement effective October , between the Registrant and International Business Machines Corporation. - Code Ethics the Company - Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Rule13a- ( )/15d- ( ) Certification Chief Executive Officer Rule13a- ( )/15d- ( ) Certification Chief Financial Officer Section Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]JA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 30th day November . User-specified TAGGED TABLE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / PETER OPPENHEIMER Peter Oppenheimer Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Peter Oppenheimer, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Title Date / / STEVEN . JOBS STEVEN . JOBS Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer) November , / / PETER OPPENHEIMER PETER OPPENHEIMER Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Principal Accounting Officer) November , / / FRED ANDERSON FRED ANDERSON Director November , / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL WILLIAM . CAMPBELL Director November , / / MILLARD . DREXLER MILLARD . DREXLER Director November , / / ALBERT GORE, . ALBERT GORE, . Director November , / / ARTHUR . LEVINSON ARTHUR . LEVINSON Director November , / / JEROME . YORK JEROME . YORK Director November , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]JC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN SEQ=,FILE=\'QUICKLINK\',USER=DNICHOL,SEQ=,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" " TOCEXISTFLA', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': "Properties The Company' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, and the Asia Pacific region. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leased space includes , square feet retail space, majority which the . Lease terms for retail space range from years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. The Company owns its manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, which has approximately , square feet. The Cork facility also houses customer support call center. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which has customer support call center and used for warehousing and distribution. addition, the Company owns approximately , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the ., the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. ", 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed below. The Company also subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and which have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain matters , which did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\' results operations. Antor Media Corporation . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiff Antor Media filed this action September , the United States District Court the Eastern District Texas alleging infringement the Company and other defendants . patent , , relating "Method and Apparatus for Transmitting Information Recorded Information Storage Means from Central Server Subscribers via High Data Rate Digital Telecommunications Network." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement and invalidity. Trial set for March . The Court held Markman hearing September , but has not yet issued ruling. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Apple Corps Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Apple Computer, Inc. . Apple Corps Ltd. Plaintiff Apple Corps filed this action July , the High Court Justice, Chancery Division, London alleging that the Company has breached agreement that resolved earlier trademark litigation between the parties regarding use Apple marks. Plaintiff seeks injunction, unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed motion October , , challenging jurisdiction the , but the Court denied the motion April , . The Company filed appeal the Court\' decision but subsequently withdrew the appeal and preparing its defense this matter. October , , the Company filed lawsuit the United States District Court for the Northern District California requesting declaratory judgment that the Company has not breached the agreement. Apple Corps challenged jurisdiction the California case but the Court denied that challenge March , . Apple Corps subsequently prevailed motion stay the California case during the pendency the action. The Company has dismissed the California lawsuit without prejudice. Cagney . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action January , Los Angeles County Superior Court, alleging improper collection sales tax transactions involving mail- rebates. The complaint alleges violations California Civil Code Section (unfair competition) and seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company was served January , , and filed answer February , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company investigating these allegations. The Company filed motion disqualify Plaintiff\' counsel, which the Court denied. The Company filed petition for writ mandate with respect this ruling and the Court Appeal has issued order show cause why the writ should not issue. Plaintiffs lead counsel subsequently withdrew. The hearing the show cause order scheduled for January , . The Company also has obtained opinion the tax issue from the State Board Equalization. Compression Labs, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc., .; Apple . Compression Labs, Inc., . Plaintiff Compression Labs, Inc. filed this patent infringement action April , against the Company and twenty-seven other defendants the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . patent , , . Plaintiff alleges that the Company infringes the patent complying with the JPEG standard defined CCITT Recommendation entitled "Information Technology\x97Digital Compression and Coding Continuous Tone Still Images\x97Requirements and Guidelines." Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company investigating this claim. Defendants have filed motion dismiss , the alternative, transfer the case Delaware. The case discovery and trial expected October . July , , the Company and several other defendants the Texas action filed lawsuit the United States District Court Delaware requesting declaratory judgment noninfringement, invalidity, implied license and unenforceability with respect the \' patent. Additional actions regarding this patent have been filed other jurisdictions. petition has been filed with the Panel Multi-District Litigation (MDL), seeking coordination and transfer all these cases one court for pre-trial proceedings. Craft . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , Santa Clara County Superior Court); Chin . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , San Mateo County Superior Court); Hughes . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , Santa Clara County Superior Court); Westley . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , San Francisco County Superior Court); Keegan . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , Alameda County Superior Court); Wagya . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed February , , Alameda County Superior Court); Yamin . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed February , , Los Angeles County Superior Court); Kieta . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed July , , Alameda County Superior Court) Eight separate plaintiffs filed purported class action cases various California courts alleging misrepresentations the Company relative iPod battery life. The complaints include causes action ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' for violation California Civil Code Section (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Action ("CLRA") and claims for false advertising, fraudulent concealment and breach warranty. The complaints seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company investigating these claims. The cases have been consolidated San Mateo County and Plaintiffs have filed consolidated complaint. addition, similar complaint relative iPod battery life, Mosley . Apple Computer, Inc. was filed Westchester County, New York June , alleging violations New York General Business Law Sections (unfair competition) and (false advertising). The Company removed the case Federal Court and Plaintiff filed motion for remand, which the Court has not yet decided. Davis . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court December , , alleging that the Company engaged unfair and deceptive business practices relating its AppleCare Extended Service and Warranty Plan. Plaintiff asserts causes action for violation the California Business and Professions Code § and § , breach the Song-Beverly Warranty Act, intentional misrepresentation and concealment. Plaintiff requests unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed demurrer and motion strike which were granted, part, and Plaintiff filed amended complaint. The Company filed answer April , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Plaintiff subsequently amended its complaint. October , , the Company filed motion disqualify Plaintiff\' counsel his role counsel the purported class and the general public. The Court granted the motion, but allowed Plaintiff retain substitute counsel. Plaintiff did engage new counsel for the general public, but not for the class. The Company moved disqualify Plaintiff\' new counsel and have the Court dismiss the general public claims for equitable relief. The Court declined disqualify Plaintiff\' new counsel dismiss the equitable claims, but did confirm that the class action claims are dismissed. The case stayed pending appeal. East Texas Technology Partners . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this patent infringement action January , the United States District Court the Eastern District Texas alleging infringement the Company and seven other defendants . patent , , relating "Virtual Connection Remote Unit Server." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Plaintiff\' law firm withdrew from the case because conflict interest and dismissed the complaint without prejudice. The case was -filed February , the Northern District Texas new law firm. The Company received service the new complaint May , and filed response August , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company investigating this claim, and the case discovery. Gobeli Research Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiff Gobeli Research Ltd. filed this patent infringement action against the Company and Sun Microsystems, Inc. April , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . patent , , related "System and Method Controlling Interrupt Processing." Plaintiff alleges that the Company\' Mac and Mac operating systems infringe Plaintiff\' patent. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous defenses. The Company investigating this claim. Goldberg, . . Apple Computer, Inc., . ( . "Dan . Apple Computer, Inc.") Plaintiffs filed this purported class action September , Los Angeles County Superior Court against the Company and other members the industry behalf alleged nationwide class purchasers certain computer hard drives. The case alleges violations Civil Code Section (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act ("CLRA") and false advertising related the size the drives. Plaintiffs allege that calculation hard drive size using the decimal method misrepresents the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' actual size the drive. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. Plaintiff filed amended complaint March , and the Company filed answer September , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company investigating this claim. The parties are conducting discovery related class certification. Hawaii Structural Iron Workers and Pension Trust Fund . Apple Computer, Inc. and Steven . Jobs; Young . Apple Computer, Inc., .; Hsu . Apple Computer Inc., . Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave Plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. Plaintiffs filed their amended complaint January , , and March , , the Company filed motion dismiss the amended complaint. The Court heard the Company\' motion July , and dismissed Plaintiffs\' claims with prejudice August , . Plaintiffs have appealed the ruling. Honeywell International, Inc., . . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiffs Honeywell International, Inc. and Honeywell Intellectual Properties, Inc. filed this action October , the United States District Court Delaware alleging infringement the Company and other defendants . patent , , entitled "Directional Diffuser for Liquid Crystal Display." Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company investigating this claim connection with preparing its response the complaint. MacTech Systems . Apple Computer, Inc.; Macadam . Apple Computer, Inc.; Computer International, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Elite Computers and Software, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; The Neighborhood Computer Store . Apple Computer, Inc. (all Santa Clara County Superior Court) Five resellers have filed similar lawsuits against the Company for various causes action including breach contract, fraud, negligent and intentional interference with economic relationship, negligent misrepresentation, trade libel, unfair competition and false advertising. Plaintiffs request unspecified damages and other relief. The Company answered the Computer International complaint November , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The parties are discovery that case. The Company expects the other four plaintiffs file amended complaints. October , , one the resellers, Macadam, was deauthorized Apple reseller. Macadam filed motion for temporary order reinstate reseller, which the Court denied. The Court denied Macadam\' motion for preliminary injunction December , . Teleshuttle Technologies, LLC and BTG International Inc. . Microsoft and Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this case July , United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging infringement . patent , , , entitled "Method and System for Distributing Updates Presenting Directory Software Available for User Installation That Not Already Installed User Station." Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. Plaintiffs filed amended complaint September , , adding second patent, patent , , entitled "Method and System for Selecting Personalized Set Information Channels." The Company filed answer October , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. VirginMega French Competition Council June , , VirginMega filed complaint with the French Competition Council against Apple Computer France. VirginMega sought "interim measures," requiring the Company license its FairPlay ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' digital rights management ("DRM") technology VirginMega and all other interested parties within thirty days. hearing VirginMega\' request for interim measures took place October , . November , , the French Competition Council issued decision denying VirginMega\' request for interim measures and rejecting VirginMega\' complaint. ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART ', 'item 5. ': "Market for the Registrant' Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities ( ) Stock Market Information The Company' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. November , , the Company filed application with the TSE delist the Company' shares from trading the TSE. November , , there were , shareholders record. The Company did not pay cash dividends either fiscal . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company' common stock the NASDAQ National Market during each quarter. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Related Shareholder Matters None. ( ) Issuer Purchases Equity Securities July , the Company' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company' common stock had fair value $ . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company has repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . The Company did not repurchase any shares its common stock during the fourth quarter fiscal . ", 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Five fiscal years ended September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ $ $ $ ( ) $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt (including current maturities) $ \x97 $ $ $ $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Shareholders\' equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Net gains before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. net loss before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million was recognized . , the Company acquired Emagic resulting charge approximately $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. The Company recognized similar charge $ million related its acquisition PowerSchool. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. During , the Company recognized the cost special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million. , the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent and was reversed. , settlement the Company\' forward stock purchase agreement resulted gain $ million. Favorable cumulative-effect type adjustments, net taxes, $ million and $ million were recognized and , respectively. ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such "anticipates," "expects," "believes," "plans," "predicts," and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\' actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition" below. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Executive Overview Apple designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops and markets line portable digital music ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' players along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party music and audio books. The Company\' products and services include the Macintosh line desktop and notebook computers, the iPod digital music player, the Xserve server and Xserve RAID storage products, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the Mac operating system, the online iTunes Music Store, portfolio peripherals that support and enhance the Macintosh and iPod product lines, and variety other service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its own retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers and value added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Macintosh compatible products, including computer printers and printing supplies, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, personal digital assistants, and various other computing products and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business and government customers. further description the Company\' products may found Part , Item this document under the heading "Business." The Company\' business strategy leverages its unique ability, through the design and development its own operating system, hardware and many software applications and technologies, bring its customers around the world compelling new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration and innovative industrial design. The Company participates several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Macintosh line computers, consumer electronics with its iPod line digital music players and distribution third-party digital music through its online iTunes Music Store. While the Company widely recognized innovator the personal computer market well leader the emerging market for distribution digital music, these are highly competitive markets that are subject aggressive pricing and increased competition. order remain competitive, the Company believes that increased investment research and development ( & ) necessary order maintain and extend its position the markets where competes. The Company\' & spending focused delivering timely updates and enhancements its existing line personal computers, displays, operating systems, software applications and portable music players; developing new digital lifestyle consumer and professional software applications; and investing new product areas such rack-mount servers, RAID storage systems, and wireless technologies. The Company utilizes variety direct and indirect distribution channels. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware, software and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available only Macintosh computers, and demonstrate the seamless compatibility the Macintosh with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes that providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting and retaining customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company has expanded and improved its distribution capabilities opening its own retail stores the . and internationally. The Company had stores open September , . The Company has also staffed selected third-party stores with the Company\' own employees improve the buying experience through reseller channels. The Company has deployed Apple employees reseller locations around the world including the ., Europe, Japan and Australia. The Company also sells customers direct through one its online stores around the world. improve the accessibility its iPod product line, the Company has significantly expanded the number distribution points where iPods are sold. The iPod product line can now purchased department stores, discount stores and specialty music and audio-visual stores. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles and the Company\' discussion and analysis its financial condition and results operations require the Company\' management make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\' consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may material. Management believes the Company\' critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation and exposures related inventory purchase commitments, valuation long-lived assets including acquired intangibles, warranty costs, and income taxes. Management believes these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company\' financial condition and results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company\' senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company\' Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale products ( ., hardware, software, and peripherals), and extended warranty and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\' product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\' historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result additional reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which could have material adverse impact the Company\' results operations. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe and Asia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\' direct customers. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts based management\' assessment the collectibility specific customer accounts and includes consideration the credit worthiness and financial condition those specific customers. The Company records allowance reduce the specific receivables the amount that reasonably believed collectible. The Company also records allowance for all other trade receivables based multiple factors including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition the Company\' distribution channels, and the aging such receivables. there deterioration major customer\' financial condition, the Company becomes aware additional information related the credit worthiness major customer, future actual default rates trade receivables general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each period that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer industry subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. future demand market conditions for the Company\' products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required record additional write-downs which would negatively affect gross margins the period when the write-downs are recorded. The Company accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Company\' requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\' products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\' products, the Company may required record additional reserves for cancellation fees that would negatively affect gross margins the period when the cancellation fees are identified. Valuation Long-Lived Assets Including Acquired Intangibles The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount such asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. such assets are considered impaired, the impairment recognized earnings equals the amount which the carrying value ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' the assets exceeds their fair market value. Although the Company has recognized material impairment adjustments related its property, plant, and equipment identifiable intangibles during the past three fiscal years, except those made conjunction with restructuring actions, deterioration the Company\' business geographic region business segment the future, including deterioration the performance individual retail stores, could lead such impairment adjustments future periods which such business issues are identified. accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the Company performs review goodwill for impairment annually, earlier indicators potential impairment exist. The review goodwill for potential impairment highly subjective and requires that: ( ) goodwill allocated various reporting units the Company\' business which relates; ( ) the Company estimate the fair value those reporting units which the goodwill relates; and ( ) the Company determine the book value those reporting units. the estimated fair value reporting units with allocated goodwill determined less than their book value, the Company required estimate the fair value all identifiable assets and liabilities those reporting units manner similar purchase price allocation for acquired business. This requires independent valuation certain internally developed and unrecognized assets including -process research and development and developed technology. Once this process complete, the amount goodwill impairment, any, can determined. Based the Company\' estimates September , there was impairment goodwill. However, changes various circumstances including changes the Company\' market capitalization, changes the Company\' forecasts, and changes the Company\' internal business structure could cause one more the Company\' reporting units valued differently thereby causing impairment goodwill. Additionally, response changes the personal computer industry and changes global regional economic conditions, the Company may strategically realign its resources and consider restructuring, disposing, otherwise exiting businesses, which could result impairment property, plant, and equipment, identifiable intangibles, goodwill. Warranty Costs The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\' typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, and adjusts the amounts necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liability would required and could negatively affect the Company\' results operations. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , the provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. the event that all part the net deferred tax assets are determined not realizable the future, adjustment the valuation allowance would charged earnings the period such determination made. Similarly, the Company subsequently realizes deferred tax assets that were previously determined unrealizable, the respective valuation allowance would reversed, resulting positive adjustment earnings decrease goodwill the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\' expectations could have material impact the Company\' results operations and financial position. Net Sales Net sales and Macintosh unit sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product follow (net sales millions and Macintosh unit sales thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change Change Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales , % , % , Japan net sales ( )% ( )% Retail net sales , % % Other segments net sales ( ) % % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Operating Segment: Americas Macintosh unit sales , % , ( )% , Europe Macintosh unit sales % ( )% Japan Macintosh unit sales ( )% ( )% Retail Macintosh unit sales % % Other segments Macintosh unit sales ( ) % % Total Macintosh unit sales , % , ( )% , Net Sales Product: Power Macintosh net sales ( ) $ , % $ , ( )% $ , PowerBook net sales , % , % iMac net sales ( ) ( )% , ( )% , iBook net sales % ( )% Total Macintosh net sales , % , ( )% , iPod , % % Other Music Products ( ) % % Peripherals and Other Hardware ( ) % % Software ( ) % % Service and other sales % % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , insert table folio ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' end table folio Unit Sales Product: Power Macintosh unit sales ( ) % ( )% PowerBook unit sales % % iMac unit sales ( ) ( )% , ( )% , iBook unit sales % ( )% Total Macintosh unit sales , % , ( )% , Net sales per Macintosh unit sold ( ) $ , % $ , % $ , iPod unit sales , % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Notes: ( ) Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker. ( ) Includes Xserve product line. ( ) Includes eMac product line. ( ) Other Music Products consists iTunes Music Store sales, iPod-related services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod-related accessories. ( ) Net sales Peripherals and Other Hardware include sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Net sales Software include sales Apple-branded operating system and application software and sales third-party software. ( ) Net sales per Macintosh unit sold derived dividing total Macintosh net sales total Macintosh unit sales. Fiscal Year versus During fiscal , net sales increased % $ billion from fiscal . Several factors have contributed favorably net sales during : \x95 Net sales Macintosh systems increased $ million % during fiscal compared while net sales per Macintosh unit sold remained relatively flat year-over-year basis. Unit sales Macintosh systems increased , units % during fiscal compared . These increases net sales and unit sales were result strong demand for all the Company\' Macintosh systems, except for the iMac. The Company\' portable systems, consisting the PowerBook and iBook, produced the strongest revenue and unit growth during fiscal compared approximately % and %, respectively. Unit sales portable systems accounted for % all Macintosh systems sold during fiscal compared only % during . The Company believes that these results reflect overall trend the industry towards portable systems. Performance the Company\' Power Macintosh systems also yielded positive results fiscal , including % and % increase net sales and unit sales, respectively. The increase year- -date Power Macintosh sales due primarily the introduction the Power Mac , which began shipping the end fiscal . Although Power Macintosh sales have increased from the prior year, sales this product were constrained the second half result manufacturing problems IBM, the Company\' sole supplier the PowerPC processor. \x95 Net sales iPods rose $ million % during fiscal compared . Unit sales iPods totaled million fiscal , which represents increase % from the , iPod units sold fiscal . Strong demand for the iPods during fiscal continued ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' experienced all the Company\' operating segments and was driven enhancements the iPod, the introduction the iPod mini, increased expansion the Company\' iPod distribution network, and continued success the iTunes Music Store due largely making available both Macintosh and Windows users the ., ., France and Germany. Since inception the iPod product line fiscal , the Company has sold approximately million iPods. \x95 The Retail segment\' net sales grew % $ billion during fiscal compared . This increase largely attributable the increase total stores from the end the end , well % year-over-year increase average revenue per store. While the Company\' customers areas where the Retail segment has opened stores may elect purchase from the Retail segment stores rather than the Company\' preexisting sales channels the . and Japan, the Company believes that substantial portion the Retail segment\' net sales incremental the Company\' total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." \x95 Net sales peripherals and other hardware rose % during fiscal compared primarily due increase net sales displays and other computer accessories. Net sales other computer accessories include AirPort cards and base stations, iSight digital video cameras, and third party hardware products. The increase total net sales peripherals and other hardware related the overall increase Macintosh unit sales and the introduction new and updated peripheral products and was experienced predominantly the Company\' Americas, Europe, and Retail segments. \x95 Other music products consists sales associated with the iTunes Music Store and iPod related services and accessories. Net sales other music products increased $ million % during fiscal compared . The Company has experienced strong growth sales iPod services and accessories consistent with the increase overall iPod unit sales for fiscal . The increased sales from the iTunes Music Store, which was originally introduced April , primarily due making the store available for Windows October and the introduction the store the ., France, and Germany June . \x95 Net sales software rose $ million % during fiscal compared due primarily higher net sales the Company\' Apple-branded software and particular, higher net sales the Company\' operating system software, Mac version "Panther," which was released October . Net sales Panther accounted for approximately $ million over % the increase software net sales for fiscal compared . \x95 The Company\' . education channel experienced year-over-year growth net sales approximately % for fiscal compared . Unit sales also increased % during fiscal compared . The increase . education net sales for fiscal relates primarily % year-over-year increase higher education net sales and lesser extent the Company\' % growth - net sales. The Company believes the . - education market remains challenging due multiple factors including funding pressures due weak economic conditions, large budget deficits many states, and increased competition particularly for desktop computers. Although the Company has taken steps, and will continue take steps, address weakness the . education channel, remains difficult anticipate when and this trend will reverse. \x95 Service and other sales increased $ million % during fiscal compared . These increases are the result significant year-over-year increases net sales associated with AppleCare Protection Plan (APP) extended maintenance and support services, well increases net sales associated with the Company\' Mac Internet service. Increased net sales associated with APP are primarily the result higher Macintosh unit sales and higher attach rates APP over the last several years. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\' net sales during fiscal were negatively impacted the following: \x95 Net sales and unit sales iMac systems were down % and %, respectively, during fiscal versus . The decrease iMac net sales and unit sales was largely due the delay the introduction the new iMac, based the PowerPC processor, primarily result manufacturing problems experienced IBM. The delays the new iMac resulted the depletion inventory the old iMac flat panel prior availability the new iMac . The old flat panel iMac form factor which was available during most fiscal , was nearly years old the time the new iMac began shipping September and had experienced declines sales result the age this product. The Company believes that sales iMac systems have also declined due shift consumer preference portable systems and competitor desktop models with price points below $ , . The Company introduced new version the eMac April with suggested retail price starting $ aimed the price sensitive customer. \x95 Net sales and unit sales the Company\' Japan segment decreased % and %, respectively, during fiscal versus . The Company believes these declines relate shift sales from the Japan Segment the Retail segment result the Tokyo and Osaka store openings fiscal . Declines Japan may also relate delays computer upgrades certain professional and creative customers pending release Japan certain Mac native applications, such Quark Xpress , which did not become available until September . When sales from the Japan retail stores are included the results for the Japan segment, the combined revenue Japan resulted % year-over-year increase fiscal compared . See additional comments below related the Japan segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." Fiscal Year versus Net sales increased $ million % during compared while Macintosh unit sales declined % year-over-year approximately million units . Several factors contributed favorably net sales during including: \x95 The Retail segment\' net sales grew $ million during from $ million , increase %. While the Company\' customers may have elected purchase product from their local Apple Retail store rather than through other preexisting sales channels the ., the Company believes that substantial portion the Retail segment\' net sales was incremental total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." \x95 Net sales iPods rose $ million % during compared . This increase was experienced all the Company\' operating segments. iPod sales during were favorably affected the introduction substantially redesigned new models, which were compatible with both Macintosh and Windows operating systems. The Company\' iPod digital music player sold variety resellers, many which not currently market the Company\' Macintosh systems. The Company expanded this distribution network during , which contributed the increase iPod unit sales %. \x95 The Company also experienced increase net sales peripherals and other hardware totaling $ million % during compared , reflecting overall increase net sales other computer accessories including AirPort cards and base stations, which facilitate wireless connectivity; third party digital cameras and printers; and number portable computer related accessories. \x95 Net sales other music products, including sales associated with the iTunes Music Store and iPod related services and accessories, increased $ million % during compared . This increase was due primarily the introduction the iTunes Music Store for the Macintosh ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' operating system April and higher sales iPod services and accessories consistent with the increase iPod net sales and unit sales during . \x95 Although total Macintosh unit sales were down % , unit sales the Company\' portable systems were relatively strong primarily due the % , unit increase PowerBook unit sales, slightly offset % , unit decrease iBook unit sales. The increase PowerBook net sales $ million % was due primarily the success the Company\' new -inch, -inch and -inch models that were introduced during . The decline iBook consumer portable sales during was primarily due lower average price per unit. Portable systems represented % all Macintosh systems sold versus % , which reflected overall industry trend towards portable systems. \x95 The Company\' average net sales per Macintosh unit sold increased % $ , result various changes overall unit mix towards relatively higher-priced PowerBook systems and increases direct sales primarily from the Company\' retail and online stores, offset somewhat lower year-over-year pricing comparable Macintosh systems for most the Company\' Macintosh product lines response industry pricing pressure, particularly with the Company\' iBook consumer portable systems. PowerBook and Power Macintosh systems accounted for % total unit sales versus % . \x95 Net sales software increased $ million % during compared the prior year and reflected higher net sales Apple-branded application and server software and third-party software. Net sales Apple-branded application and server software increased due the introduction several new software titles during fiscal including Final Cut Express, iLife, and Keynote, well from higher sales software related recent acquisitions including PowerSchool and Emagic. Growth net sales third-party software during was particularly strong the Americas Segment due strong sales software the Company\' online store and its Retail segment. \x95 Service and other sales rose $ million % during which primarily resulted from significant year-over-year increases net sales associated with APP extended maintenance and support services, well the Company\' Internet related services. Increased net sales associated with APP were primarily the result increasing attach rates over the last several years. Increased net sales associated with Internet services were due increased net sales the Company\' Mac Internet service. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\' net sales during were negatively impacted the following factors: \x95 Total unit sales desktop systems fell % during compared . iMac systems unit sales declined % from resulting from shift sales away from desktop systems favor portables. Also, the flat panel iMac form factor available during fiscal was the eighth quarter its life cycle the end . \x95 Unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared . For the first nine months compared the same period , unit sales Power Macintosh systems decreased %, which was representative the decline Power Macintosh systems sales experienced the Company during recent years and was also believed attributable delays purchasing pending the release the Power Mac . expected, this trend reversed the fourth quarter with unit sales increasing % during the quarter compared the same period the prior year due largely the new Power Mac , which the Company introduced June and began shipping the end fiscal . The decline Power Macintosh sales over the previous several years also reflects the shift sales portable systems, particularly PowerBooks. addition, the Company believes that weak economic conditions over the past ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' several years had pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers. Additionally, some the Company\' professional and creative customers may have delayed upgrades their systems anticipation certain software vendors transitioning their professionally oriented Macintosh software applications run natively Mac . \x95 The Company experienced ongoing weakness its . education channel during . Net sales and unit sales . education during were down % and %, respectively, compared . This decline was due decrease - sales, partially offset increase higher education sales. Net sales declined primarily result continued shift mix away from higher priced Power Macintosh and iMac systems towards lower priced eMac and iBook systems, although the Company did experience significant increase sales its PowerBook systems primarily higher education customers. Portable systems accounted for approximately % total unit sales the education channel during , compared approximately % . Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan and excludes revenue from the Company\' own retail stores Japan, which included the Company\' Retail segment. The Retail segment operated Apple-owned retail stores the . and Japan during fiscal . Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Americas During fiscal , net sales the Americas segment grew % $ million compared fiscal . The increase net sales during was primarily attributable the significant year-over-year increase iPod sales well strong sales peripherals, software, and services. This increase was partially offset shift sales the Retail segment, which had stores the . the end fiscal . Macintosh unit sales also increased % fiscal compared , driven primarily strong sales portable and Power Macintosh systems, partially offset continued weakness iMac sales. During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\' total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. noted above, the Company experienced increase . education channel net sales % for fiscal compared . Strong . education net sales for the current year relate primarily strength higher education net sales that resulted from successful back- -school selling season with strong demand for the Company\' portables. This strength drove year-over-year growth net sales % for the higher education channel during fiscal . The Company\' - net sales grew year-over-year % during fiscal , despite the challenges the - market from continued budget constraints and increased competition, due the Company\' continued focus and success with delivering : education solutions. Net sales the Americas segment during increased $ million % compared . During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\' total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. The results the Americas segment are similar the overall results the Company they reflect substantially lower unit sales and net sales Power Macintosh systems and iMac systems, partially offset increases unit sales and net sales PowerBooks. The net sales the Americas segment, and the Company total, also reflect substantially higher sales iPods, peripherals, software, and services during compared . The Americas segment had been negatively affected weakness its . education channel during . Total net sales and unit sales the . education channel during ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' were down % and %, respectively, compared the same period . The Company believes this decline was caused increased competition the education market and reduction spending . educational institutions due federal and state funding concerns and tax revenue shortfalls resulting from the weak economy. Additionally, some the decline during net sales and unit sales Macintosh systems the Americas segment may the result the operation the Company\' Retail segment whose net sales, all which occurred within the ., increased significantly during . Europe Net sales Europe rebounded fiscal increasing $ million % from . Total Macintosh unit sales Europe also experienced growth during the current year increasing % fiscal compared . Consistent with the Americas segment, Europe experienced strong net sales across all product lines, except for the iMac systems. Demand Europe during fiscal was particularly strong for the Company\' Power Macintosh systems and portable Macintosh systems, which experienced year-over-year increases % and %, respectively. Similar the results the Company\' other segments, net sales iPods, peripherals and software were strong fiscal . Net sales Europe increased $ million % during compared while Macintosh unit sales declined % during the same period. Europe\' operating results were consistent with the trend experienced the Americas and the Company whole. Europe experienced weakened demand for Power Macintosh, iMac and iBook systems , partially offset strong demand for PowerBooks whose net sales increased % $ million from . Europe also realized increased sales iPods, peripherals, software, and services. Japan The Japan segment continues challenge for the Company, with four consecutive years year-over-year declines both net sales and Macintosh unit sales. Japan\' net sales and unit sales were down % and %, respectively during fiscal compared , continuing lag behind all the Company\' other operating segments. These decreases net sales and unit sales are believed attributable part shift sales from the Japan segment the Retail segment result the opening two stores Japan fiscal . addition, such decreases may have been related delayed computer system upgrades some professional and creative customers who were awaiting the release Quark XPress for Mac , which did not occur until September . The decrease net sales was partially offset strong iPod and iBook sales during fiscal compared . Net sales Japan decreased $ million % during compared the same period , the weakest year- -date performance any the Company\' operating segments. Japan\' Macintosh unit sales were particularly weak , declining %, and were primarily attributable lower sales iMac and iBook systems, partially offset increase PowerBook sales well higher sales iPods, and peripherals and other hardware. Japan\' Macintosh unit sales remained significantly below the segment\' historic levels due economic conditions that remained particularly negative Japan. Retail The Company opened new retail stores during , including its first two international stores Tokyo and Osaka, Japan, bringing the total number open stores September , . This compares open stores September , and open stores September , . During the first quarter , the Company anticipates opening approximately additional stores end the calendar year approximately stores. Approximately half the stores expected open during the first quarter will the new "mini" store design, which the Company\' smallest store format date; allowing placed variety new locations introduce the Company\' innovative products even more customers. The Company also opened its third international store London, England during the first quarter . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Net sales the Retail segment grew $ billion during from $ million and $ million, and , respectively. The increases net sales during both and reflect the impact new store openings for each fiscal year, including the opening new stores and new stores . increase average revenue per store also contributed the segment\' strong sales fiscal . With average stores open during , the Retail segment achieved annualized revenue per store approximately $ million, compared $ million with store average and $ million with store average. measured the Company\' operating segment reporting, the Retail segment reported profit $ million during fiscal compared losses $ million and $ million during and , respectively. This improvement primarily attributable the segment\' year-over-year increase average quarterly revenue per store, the impact opening new stores, and the segment\' year-over-year increase net sales, which resulted higher leverage occupancy, depreciation and other fixed costs. Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital expenditures associated with the Retail segment were $ million fiscal , bringing the total capital expenditures since inception the Retail segment approximately $ million. September , , the Retail segment had approximately , employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities approximately $ million. The Company would incur substantial costs should choose terminate its Retail segment close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Gross margin declined fiscal % net sales from % net sales . The Company\' gross margin during fiscal declined due increase mix towards lower margin iPod and iBook sales, pricing actions certain Power Macintosh models that were transitioned during the beginning , higher warranty costs certain portable Macintosh products, and higher freight and duty costs during fiscal . These unfavorable factors were partially offset increase direct sales and % year-over-year increase higher margin software sales. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margin the overall personal computer and consumer electronics industries will remain under pressure throughout fiscal light price competition, especially for the iPod product line. The Company also expects continue incur air freight charges, which negatively impact gross margins the iMac and other products during the first quarter and possibly beyond. The foregoing statements regarding the Company\' expected gross margin during , general demand for personal computers, anticipated air freight charges, and future economic conditions are forward- looking. There can assurance that current gross margins will maintained targeted gross margin levels will achieved. general, gross margins and margins individual products, including iPods, will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\' product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage product quality and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account anticipated changes foreign currency exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third-parties excess insufficient inventories particular products components. The Company\' operating results and financial condition the past have been and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Gross margin decreased % net sales from % net sales . This decline gross margin reflects relatively aggressive pricing actions several Macintosh models instituted the Company beginning late fiscal result continued pricing pressure throughout the personal computer industry, lower sales relatively higher margin Power Macintosh systems during the first three fiscal quarters , and increased air freight and manufacturing costs associated with the production ramp- the new Power Mac and -inch PowerBook, both which began shipping volume during September . This decline also attributable rise certain component costs the year progressed. The aforementioned negative factors affecting gross margins during were partially offset the increase higher margin software and direct sales. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except for percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and development $ $ $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ $ $ Purchased -process research and development \x97 \x97 $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and Development ( & ) The Company recognizes that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. The Company has historically relied upon innovation remain competitive. & expense amounted approximately % total net sales during fiscal down from % total net sales both and . This decrease due the significant increase % total net sales the Company for fiscal . Although & expense decreased percentage total net sales fiscal , actual expenditures for & fiscal increased $ million % from fiscal , which follows % $ million increase compared . The overall increase & expense relates primarily increased headcount and support for new product development activities and the impact employee salary merit increases . & spending also included capitalized software development costs approximately $ million related the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' development Mac Tiger and $ million related the development FileMaker Pro ; $ million related the development Mac Panther ; and approximately $ million associated with the development Mac Jaguar and approximately $ million associated with the PowerSchool enterprise student information system . Further information related the Company\' capitalization software development costs may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense ( & ) Expenditures for & increased $ million % during compared . These increases are due primarily the Company\' continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets, current year increase discretionary spending marketing and advertising, increase amortization costs associated with restricted stock compensation, and higher direct and channel selling expenses resulting from the increase net sales and employee salary merit increases. & percentage total net sales was %, down from % . This decrease due the increase % total net sales the Company for fiscal , reflecting leverage the Company\' fixed costs. & increased $ million % during compared due primarily the Company\' continued expansion the Retail segment and increases headcount. The overall increase was partially offset decrease discretionary spending marketing and advertising and savings resulting from the and restructuring activities described below. Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations. the $ million charge, $ million had been spent the end , with the remaining $ million consisting $ million for employee severance benefits and $ million for lease cancellations. During the fourth quarter , the Company recognized restructuring expense $ million. conjunction with the European workforce reduction during the second quarter , the Company vacated leased sales facility during the fourth quarter resulting charge $ million for contract termination and asset impairment costs. The Company also recognized employee termination costs $ million related the elimination non-essential positions, principally Europe. addition, the Company reversed $ , excess restructuring expense from prior periods related primarily lower than expected disposal costs Sacramento manufacturing-related fixed assets. The net cost the restructuring plans for the fourth quarter was $ million, which $ , had been paid prior the end . These actions will result the termination positions, which had been terminated prior the end . During the third quarter , the Company finalized restructuring plans related closing Company-owned manufacturing activities Sacramento. addition, the Company\' management approved restructuring plans related certain headcount reductions primarily for various sales and marketing activities principally the . Total cost the restructuring plan for the third quarter was $ million, which $ million had been paid prior the end . These actions will result the termination positions, which had been terminated prior the end . The closing manufacturing operations Sacramento resulted the elimination positions for severance cost $ million and write-off $ million manufacturing-related fixed assets whose use ceased during the third quarter . Termination sales and marketing activities, principally the ., resulted severance $ million for the elimination positions. During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved restructuring plans related the termination Company-owned manufacturing activities Sacramento and headcount reductions ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' related primarily various sales and marketing activities the . and Europe. Total cost the actions was $ million for the termination positions. the end the fourth quarter , $ million had been spent and positions had been eliminated related these actions. The Company estimates the closing the Sacramento manufacturing operations will result reduced ongoing quarterly operating expenses approximately $ million. addition, the Company estimates that the remaining restructuring actions taken fiscal will ultimately result reduced ongoing quarterly operating expenses approximately $ million. Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million charge write-off deferred compensation, $ million asset impairments and $ million charge for lease cancellations. the $ million charge, all had been spent the end , except for approximately $ million related operating lease costs abandoned facilities. During the third quarter , approximately $ , the amount originally accrued for lease cancellations was determined excess due the sublease property sooner than originally estimated and approximately $ , shortfall was identified the severance accrual due higher than expected severance costs related the closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations. These adjustments had net effect reported operating expense. During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions that resulted recognition total restructuring charge $ million, including $ million severance costs and $ , for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. Actions taken the second quarter were for the most part supplemental actions initiated the prior two quarters and focused further headcount reductions various sales and marketing functions the Company\' Americas and Europe operating segments and further reductions associated with PowerSchool-related activities the Americas operating segment, including accrual for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. The second quarter actions resulted the termination employees. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost $ million that resulted the termination manufacturing operations the Company-owned facility Singapore, further reductions headcount resulting from the shift PowerSchool product strategy that took place the end fiscal , and termination various sales and marketing activities the . and Europe. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination positions worldwide. Closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations resulted severance costs $ million and costs $ million write-off manufacturing related fixed assets, whose use ceased during the first quarter. PowerSchool related costs included severance approximately $ , and recognition $ million previously deferred stock compensation that arose when PowerSchool was acquired the Company related certain PowerSchool employee stockholders who were terminated the first quarter . Termination sales and marketing activities and employees, principally the . and Europe, resulted severance costs $ million and accrual costs associated with operating leases closed facilities $ million. The total net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the first quarter also reflects the reversal $ , unused restructuring accrual originally made during the first quarter . Fiscal Restructuring Actions During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. During the fourth quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million designed reduce headcount costs corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million, all which were eliminated September , . Eliminated positions were primarily corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development the Americas operating segment. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool\' PSE product. This shift resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the PSE product the amount $ million. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. The Company ceased using the assets associated with first quarter restructuring actions during that same quarter. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled $ million. The first quarter restructuring actions were primarily related corporate activity not allocated operating segments. During the first quarter , the Company reversed the remaining unused accrual $ , . Purchased -Process Research and Development (IPR& ) During , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH, provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ , which was allocated IPR& . The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The fair value the IPR& was determined using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Gains (losses) non-current investments, net $ $ $ ( ) Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments, net Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 Interest and other income, net $ $ $ Total other income and expense $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Gains and Losses Non-current Investments Over the course the last three years, the Company has held investments that were classified available-for-sale EarthLink Inc. (EarthLink), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), ARM Holdings plc (ARM) and certain investments private companies. Further information related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. During , the Company sold its remaining , shares Akamai stock. The transaction generated proceeds approximately $ million and gain before taxes approximately $ million. September , , the Company does not have any non-current public company investments reflected its consolidated balance sheet. During , the Company sold , , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes approximately $ million. Additionally, the Company sold its remaining investment ARM stock, , shares, for net proceeds approximately $ , , and gain before taxes $ , , and sold its remaining investment EarthLink stock, , , shares, for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes $ million. During , the Company determined that declines the fair value certain investments were other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment EarthLink, $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment Akamai, and $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment private company investment. These losses were partially offset the sale , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , the sale , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , and the sale approximately million shares ARM stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. Interest and Other Income, Net Total interest and other income, net decreased $ million % $ million during fiscal compared $ million and $ million . These decreases are attributable primarily declining investment yields the Company\' cash and short-term investments resulting from lower market interest and shortening the average maturity the Company\' investment portfolio, well lower gains sales short-term investments fiscal . The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments fell % compared the % and % rates earned during and , respectively. The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. result such sales, the Company recognized net gains $ million, $ million and $ million during fiscal , and , respectively. The decrease total interest and other income, net during fiscal was also offset the $ million gain related the forward purchase agreement during the fourth quarter which further discussed below under the heading "Cumulative Effects Accounting Changes." Interest expense consisted primarily interest the Company\' $ million aggregate principal amount unsecured notes, which were repaid upon their maturity February , partially offset amortization deferred gains realized and that resulted from the closure swap positions associated with the unsecured notes. The unsecured notes were sold % par for effective yield maturity %. Total deferred gain resulting from the closure debt swaps approximately $ million was fully amortized the notes\' maturity February . Provision for Income Taxes The Company\' effective tax rate for the year ended September , was approximately %. The Company\' effective rate differs from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes are provided because such earnings are intended ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' indefinitely reinvested outside the . September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates principally the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its field audit the Company\' federal income tax returns for all years prior and proposed certain adjustments. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for these years have been resolved. addition, the Company also subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\' tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Cumulative Effects Accounting Changes Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity May , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity . SFAS . requires issuers classify liabilities certain freestanding financial instruments that embody obligations for the issuer and have characteristics both liabilities and equity. The Company adopted the provisions SFAS . June , , which resulted favorable cumulative effect type adjustment approximately $ million. This adjustment represented the mark- -market adjustment fair value for forward purchase agreement that allowed the Company acquire million shares its common stock price $ per share. The Company settled this forward purchase agreement August . The settlement resulted additional gain approximately $ million, which included interest and other income, net. Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations September , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations , which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment net income during approximately $ million. This adjustment represents cumulative depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized through the date adoption SFAS . had the statement been applied the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations the time they were initially incurred. Recent Accounting Pronouncements December , the Securities and Exchange Commission released Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition , which supercedes SAB , Revenue Recognition Financial Statements . SAB clarifies existing guidance regarding revenue contracts that contain multiple deliverables make consistent with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) . - . The adoption SAB did not have material impact the Company\' results operations financial position. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' December , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation . (FIN) 46R, revision FIN , Consolidation Variable Interest Entities. FIN 46R clarifies some the provisions FIN and exempts certain entities from its requirements. FIN 46R effective the end the first interim period ending after March , . The adoption FIN 46R did not have material impact the Company\' results operations financial position. March , the FASB issued EITF Issue . - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application Certain Investments . EITF - includes new guidance for evaluating and recording impairment losses debt and equity investments, well new disclosure requirements for investments that are deemed temporarily impaired. September , the FASB issued FASB Staff Position EITF - - , which delays the effective date until additional guidance issued for the application the recognition and measurement provisions EITF - investments securities that are impaired; however, the disclosure requirements are effective for annual periods ending after June , . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application EITF - , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact its results operations financial position. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation The Company currently measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees and provides pro forma disclosures the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. The Company has elected follow APB Opinion . because, further discussed Part , Item this Form - Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. March , , the FASB issued proposed Statement, Share-Based Payment, that addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions which enterprise receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the enterprise ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\' equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. The proposed Statement would eliminate the ability account for share-based compensation transactions using APB Opinion . and generally would require instead that such transactions accounted for using fair-value-based method. adopted, currently anticipated that the proposed Statement would effective for the Company beginning its fourth fiscal quarter . the Company\' annual shareholders meeting April , , shareholders approved proposal requesting that the Company\' Board Directors (the Board) establish policy expensing the value all future employee stock options issued the Company. The Board and management appreciate and take seriously the views expressed the Company\' shareholders. The Company decided not expense the value employee stock options until the FASB finalizes its new accounting standard the matter, which may play significant role determining the fair value and accounting for employee stock options. The Company monitors progress the FASB and other developments with respect the general issue employee stock compensation. The Company currently reviewing the potential impact from the guidance the proposed statement, which may require the Company recognize substantially more compensation expense future periods that could have material adverse impact the Company\' future results operations. The accounting impact had the Company chosen apply the fair-value recognition provisions SFAS . , instead the recognition provisions under APB Opinion . , described Part , Item this Form - Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ $ $ Inventory $ $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable (DSO) ( ) Days supply inventory ( ) Days payables outstanding (DPO) ( ) Annual operating cash flow $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) DSO based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Days supply inventory based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. ( ) DPO based ending accounts payable and most recent quarterly cost sales adjusted for the change inventory. September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, increase $ million over the same balances the end fiscal . The principal components this increase were cash generated operating activities $ million and proceeds $ million from the issuance common stock under stock plans, partially offset cash used repay the Company\' outstanding debt $ million and purchases property, plant, and equipment $ million. The Company\' short-term investment portfolio primarily invested high credit quality, liquid investments. Approximately $ billion this cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held the Company\' foreign subsidiaries and would subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company currently assessing the impact the one-time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted part the American Jobs Creation Act , and may decide repatriate earnings from some its foreign subsidiaries. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, stock repurchase activity, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. Debt February , the Company retired $ million debt outstanding the form % unsecured notes. The notes were originally issued and were sold % par for effective yield maturity %. The Company currently has long-term debt obligations. Capital Expenditures The Company\' total capital expenditures were $ million during fiscal , $ million which were for retail store facilities and equipment related the Company\' Retail segment and $ million which were primarily for corporate infrastructure, including information systems enhancements and operating facilities enhancements and expansions. The Company currently anticipates will utilize approximately $ million for capital expenditures during , approximately $ million which expected utilized for further expansion the Company\' Retail segment and the remainder utilized support normal replacement existing capital assets and enhancements general information technology infrastructure. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DK1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company\' common stock had fair value $ . Other than this forward purchase transaction, the Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock since fiscal . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was still authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk credit risk support the Company. The following table presents certain payments due the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments September , and excludes amounts already recorded the Company\' balance sheet current liabilities ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE TOTAL Payments Due Less Than year Payments Due - years Payments Due - years Payments Due More Than years Operating Leases $ $ $ $ $ Purchase Obligations , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Asset Retirement Obligations \x97 Other Obligations \x97 \x97 Total $ , $ , $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases approximately $ million, $ million which related the lease retail space and related facilities. Remaining terms the Company\' existing operating leases range from years. Purchase Obligations The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\' products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. The nature the Company\' outstanding third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments has not changed significantly since the end its fiscal . September , , the Company had ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' outstanding third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments approximately $ billion. Asset Retirement Obligations The Company\' asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. September , , the Company estimates that gross expected future cash flows approximately $ million would required fulfill these obligations. Other Obligations The Company\' other obligations approximately $ million are primarily related telecommunications services. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse affect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. General economic conditions and current economic and political uncertainty could adversely affect the demand for the Company\' products and the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. The Company\' operating performance depends significantly general economic conditions the . and abroad. Over the past several years, demand for the Company\' products has been negatively impacted difficult global economic conditions. Additionally, some the Company\' education customers appeared delaying technology purchases due concerns about the overall impact the weaker economy and state budget deficits their available funding. Although recent macroeconomic trends seem indicate economic recovery, continued uncertainty about future economic conditions makes difficult forecast future demand for the Company\' products and related operating results. Should global and regional economic conditions deteriorate, demand for the Company\' products could adversely affected, could the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. War, terrorism, public health issues other business interruptions could disrupt supply, delivery demand products, which could negatively affect the Company\' operations and performance. War, terrorism, public health issues and other business interruptions whether the . abroad, have caused and could continue cause damage disruption international commerce creating economic and political uncertainties that may have strong negative impact the global economy, the Company, and the Company\' suppliers customers. The Company\' major business operations are subject interruption earthquake, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, medical conditions, and other events beyond its control. The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake other natural manmade disaster. Although impossible predict the occurrences consequences any such events, such events could result decrease demand for the Company\' products, make difficult impossible deliver products its customers receive components from its suppliers, and could create delays and inefficiencies the Company\' supply chain. addition, should major public health issues, including epidemics, arise the Company could negatively impacted the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations the availability freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between various regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\' manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these events. The market for personal computers and related peripherals and services, well digital music devices and related services, highly competitive. the Company unable effectively compete these markets, its results operations could adversely affected. The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. Over the past several years, price competition the market for personal computers and related peripherals has been particularly intense. The Company\' competitors who sell Windows and Linux based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins order gain maintain market share response the weakness demand that began the second half calendar for personal computing products. The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry-wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The personal computer industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. Several the Company\' competitors have introduced announced plans introduce digital music products and online stores offering digital music distribution that mimic many the unique design, technical features, and solutions the Company\' products. The Company has significant number competitors, many whom have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, there has been trend towards consolidation the personal computer industry that has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors the Company\' markets. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing other competing operating systems, including Windows and Linux. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The Company currently focused market opportunities related digital music distribution and related consumer electronic devices, including iPods. The Company faces increasing competition from other companies promoting their own digital music products and distribution services and free peer- -peer music services. These competitors include both new entrants with novel market approaches, such subscription services models, and also larger companies that may have greater technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than those the Company, well established hardware, software and music content supplier relationships. Failure effectively compete could negatively affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. There can assurance that the Company will able continue provide products and services that effectively compete these markets successfully distribute and sell digital music outside the . The Company may also have respond price competition lowering prices and increasing features which could adversely affect the Company\' music product gross margins well overall Company gross margins. The Company also faces increased competition the . education market. Sales the . both elementary and secondary schools, well for college and university customers, remain core market for the Company. Uncertainty this channel remains several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target the education market for personal computers, which could negatively affect the Company\' market share. effort regain market share and remain competitive, the Company has been and will continue pursue one- -one ( : ) learning solutions education. The Company\' : learning solutions are complete solution consisting iBook portable system for every student and teacher along with wireless network connected central server. These : learning solutions and other strategic sales are generally priced more aggressively and could result significantly less profitability even financial losses, particularly for larger deals. Although the Company believes has taken certain steps strengthen its position the education market, there can assurance that the Company will able increase maintain its share the education market execute profitably large strategic arrangements. Failure may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions order remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, which are characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products order remain competitive, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new products and upgraded versions the Company\' existing products. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance; the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, including production ramp issues; the availability application software for new products; the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand; the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand; and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. The Company\' products, from time time, experience quality problems that can result decreased net sales and operating profits. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that can contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation the software. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third-parties. There can assurance that the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware and software sells. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Failure could result lost revenue, loss reputation, and significant warranty and other expense remedy. Because orders for components, and some cases commitments purchase components, must placed advance customer orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been cancelled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer and consumer electronics industries, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may have, material effect the Company\' financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Future operating results are dependent upon the Company\' ability obtain sufficient supply components, including microprocessors, some which are short supply available only from limited sources. Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and ASICs are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some key components (including without limitation DRAM, and TFT-LCD flat-panel displays), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\' yields have matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry including certain microprocessors and ASICs. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\' requirements. the supply key component were delayed constrained new existing product, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (formerly the Semiconductor Products Segment Motorola, Inc.), the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation and other developers and producers microprocessors used personal computers using other operating systems. Further, despite its efforts educate the marketplace the contrary, the Company believes that many its current and potential customers believe that the relatively slower MHz ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' rating clock speed the microprocessors utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized other operating systems and translates slower overall system performance. There have been instances recent years where the inability the Company\' suppliers provide advanced PowerPC microprocessors sufficient quantity has had significant adverse effects the Company\' results operations. addition, IBM currently the Company\' sole supplier the PowerPC processor, which used the Company\' current Power Mac, Xserve, and iMac products. Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. the sole supplier the processor, which used the Company\' eMac and portable products. IBM has recently experienced manufacturing problems with the PowerPC processor, which resulted the Company delaying the shipment various products and constrained certain product shipments during the second half . The inability IBM remedy these problems timely manner, avoid manufacturing problems the future, and deliver the Company microprocessors sufficient quantities with competitive price performance features could further constrain shipments products containing the processor and could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. The Company dependent manufacturing and logistics services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the . Most the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the cost operations, they also reduce the Company\' direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured services rendered, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. Final assembly products sold the Company currently conducted the Company\' manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California, Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the Netherlands, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacture many the components used the Company\' products and final assembly substantially all the Company\' portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and the iPod performed third-party vendors Taiwan and China. for any reason manufacturing logistics any these locations disrupted events such regional economic, business, environmental, medical, political, information technology system failures, military actions, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' future operating performance dependent the performance distributors and other resellers the Company\' products. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. addition, the Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly end users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online stores around the world and its retail stores. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins and have been negatively affected recent economic conditions. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weaken, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\' products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\' products caused resellers ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. The Company has invested and will continue invest various programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\' stores with Company employees. These programs could require substantial investment from the Company, while providing assurance return incremental revenue offset this investment. Over the past several years, increasing proportion the Company\' net sales have been made the Company directly end-users through its online stores around the world and through its retail stores the . and Japan. Some the Company\' resellers have perceived this expansion the Company\' direct sales conflicting with their own business and economic interests distributors and resellers the Company\' products. Perception such conflict could discourage the Company\' resellers from investing additional resources the distribution and sale the Company\' products lead them limit cease distribution the Company\' products. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected expansion its direct sales end-users causes some all its resellers cease limit distribution the Company\' products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution." The Company relies third-party music content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with third parties offer their music content customers through the Company\' iTunes Music Store. The Company pays substantial fees obtain the rights offer its customers this third-party music. Many the Company\' licensing arrangements with these third-party content providers are short-term nature and not guarantee the future renewal these arrangements commercially reasonable terms, all. Certain parties the music industry have announced their intent consolidate their music distribution operations, which could limit the availability and increase the fees required offer music content customers through the iTunes Music Store. Further, some third-party content providers currently, may the future, offer music products and services that compete with the Company\' music products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license their music content the future. the Company unable continue offer wide variety music content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach outside the ., then sales and gross margins the Company\' iTunes Music Store well related hardware and peripherals, including iPods, may adversely affected. Third-party content providers and artists require that the Company provide certain digital rights management solutions and other security mechanisms. the requirements from content providers artists change, then the Company may required further develop license technology address such new rights and requirements. There assurance that the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner, all, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company\' future performance dependent upon support from third-party software developers. third-party software applications cease developed available for the Company\' hardware products, then customers may choose not buy the Company\' products. The Company believes that decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications such Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, continued acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' software products. the extent the Company\' financial losses prior years and the minority market share held the Company the personal computer market, well the Company\' decision end its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. Moreover, there can assurance software developers will continue develop software for Mac , the Company\' operating system, timely basis all. addition, past and future development the Company its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision software developers develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\' products. The Company currently markets and sells variety software applications for use professionals, consumers, and education customers that could influence the decisions third-party software developers develop upgrade Macintosh-compatible software products. Software applications currently marketed the Company include software for professional film and video editing, professional compositing and visual effects for large format film and video productions, professional music production and music post production, professional and consumer DVD encoding and authoring, consumer digital video and digital photo editing and management, digital music management, desktop-based database management, and high-quality presentations. The Company also markets integrated productivity application that incorporates word processing, page layout, image manipulation, spreadsheets, databases, and presentations single application. August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation entered into patent cross license and technology agreements. addition, for period five years through August , and subject certain limitations related the number Macintosh computers sold the Company, Microsoft was required make versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac . Although Microsoft has released Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer for Mac , Microsoft has not been obligated produce future versions its products subsequent August . While the Company believes its relationship with Microsoft has been and will continue beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Company does compete directly with Microsoft number key areas. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac following expiration the agreements may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system and competing digital media applications, including music distribution service and technology. June , Microsoft stated that would longer develop new versions Internet Explorer for the Mac , subsequent the Company\' introduction during its own web browser, Safari. Further discontinuance products for the Macintosh platform, including Microsoft Office and other Microsoft products could have adverse effect the Company\' net sales and results operations. The Company\' business relies access patents and intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company\' future results could adversely affected alleged found have infringed the intellectual property rights others. Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third-parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available available acceptable terms. Because technological changes the computer and consumer electronics industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' property rights others. Responding such claims, regardless their merit, can time consuming, result significant expenses, and cause the diversion management and technical personnel. Several pending claims are various stages evaluation. The Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements certain these cases. However, assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. the event there temporary permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain its products successful claim infringement against the Company requiring pay royalties third-party, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected. Information regarding certain claims and litigation involving the Company related alleged patent infringement and other matters set forth Part , Item this Form - . the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights others that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its results operations, financial condition. However, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others described Part , Item this Form - should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company\' retail initiative has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. Through September , the Company has opened retail stores. The Company\' retail initiative has required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with lease terms ranging from years, the majority which are for years. The Company could incur substantial costs should choose terminate this initiative close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Additionally, relatively high proportion the Retail segment\' costs are fixed because depreciation store construction costs and lease expense. result, significant losses would result should the Retail segment experience decline sales for any reason. Certain the Company\' stores have been designed and built serve high profile venues that function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company\' more typical retail stores. The Company has opened seven such stores through November . Because their location and size, these high profile stores also require the Company enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared those required for its more typical stores. Current leases such locations have terms ranging from years with total commitments per location over the lease terms ranging from $ million $ million. Closure poor performance one these high profile stores could have particularly significant negative impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Many the general risks and uncertainties the Company faces could also have adverse impact its Retail segment. Also, many factors unique retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some which are beyond the Company\' control, that could adversely affect the Retail segment\' future results, cause its actual results differ from those currently expected, and have adverse effect the Company\' consolidated results operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique retail operations that could have adverse impact the Retail segment include, among other things, macro-economic factors that have negative impact general retail activity; inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation; lack consumer acceptance the Company\' retail approach; failure attract new users the Macintosh platform; inability sell third-party hardware and software products adequate margins; failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack experience ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' managing retail operations outside the .; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability obtain quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company\' ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. The Company may decide invest new business strategies engage acquisitions that complement the Company\' strategic direction and product roadmap. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management\' attention away from normal business operations; insufficient revenue generation offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy; and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\' due diligence process. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, assurance can given that such strategies and initiatives will successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company\' business, operating results financial condition. Declines the sales the Company\' professional products increases sales consumer products, including iPods, may negatively impact the Company\' gross margin and operating margin percentages Unit sales the Company\' professional products, including Power Macintosh and PowerBook systems, generally have higher gross margins than the Company\' consumer products, including iMacs, iBooks, iPods, and content from the iTunes Music Store. shift sales mix away from higher margin professional products towards lower margin consumer products could adversely affect the Company\' future gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company\' traditional professional customers may choose buy consumer products, specifically the iMac and iBook, instead professional products. Professional users may choose buy the iMac due its relative price performance, use the same PowerPC processor used the Company\' Power Macs, and unique design featuring flat panel screen. Potential PowerBook customers may also choose purchase iBooks instead due their price performance and screen size. Additionally, significant future growth iPod sales without corresponding growth higher margin product sales could also reduce gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company believes that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers who are significant users its professional systems. Also, likely that many the Company\' current and potential professional, creative, and small business customers, who are most likely utilize professional systems, believe that the relatively slower MHz rating clock speed the microprocessors the Company utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized other computer manufacturers and translates slower overall system performance. These factors may result adverse impact sales the Company\' professional products well gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\' profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company\' direct sales, primarily through its retail and online stores, generally have higher associated profitability than its indirect sales. Additionally, the Company\' direct channels have traditionally had more sales software and higher priced hardware products, which generally have higher gross margins, than through its indirect channels. result, the Company\' gross margin and operating margin percentages well overall profitability may adversely impacted result shift product, geographic channel mix. addition, the Company generally sells more products during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months, pattern typical the personal computer industry. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\' internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely impact the Company\' ability predict its financial results accurately. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\' products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\' key logistics, components suppliers, manufacturing partners, can have significant adverse impacts the Company and its results operations and financial condition. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The Company has higher research and development and selling, general and administrative costs, percentage revenue, than many its competitors. The Company\' ability compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins and revenue growth heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow innovative and competitive products and technologies the marketplace. result, the Company incurs higher research and development costs percentage revenue than its competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems. Many these competitors seek compete aggressively price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, result the expansion the Company\' Retail segment and costs associated with marketing the Company\' brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs higher selling costs percentage revenue than many its competitors. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive gross margins, its results operations may materially adversely affected its operating cost structure. The Company exposed credit risk its accounts receivables. This risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly certain educational institutions and commercial customers. substantial majority the Company\' outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale the Company raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. While the Company has procedures place monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and non-trade receivables, there can assurance that such procedures will effective limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, the global economy and regional economies fail improve continue deteriorate, becomes more likely that the Company will incur material loss losses result the weakening financial condition one more its customers manufacturing vendors. The Company\' success depends largely its ability attract and retain key personnel. Much the future success the Company depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, members its executive team, and those technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the information technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where the majority the Company\' key employees are located. The Company has relied its ability grant stock options one mechanism for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Potential accounting regulations requiring the expensing stock options may impair the Company\' future ability provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. There can assurance that the Company will continue successfully attract and retain key personnel. The Company subject risks associated with the availability and cost insurance. The Company has observed rapidly changing conditions the insurance markets relating nearly all areas traditional commercial insurance. Such conditions have and may continue result higher premium costs, higher policy deductibles, lower coverage limits and may also yield possible policy form exclusions. For some risks, because cost and availability, the Company does not have insurance coverage. Because the Company retains some portion its insurable risks, and some cases self insures completely, unforeseen catastrophic losses excess insured limits may have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations and financial position. Failure information technology systems and breaches the security data upon which the Company relies could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. Information technology system failures and breaches data security could disrupt the Company\' ability function the normal course business potentially causing delays cancellation customer ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' orders, impeding the manufacture shipment products, resulting the unintentional disclosure customer Company information. Management has taken steps address these concerns for its own systems implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures. However, there can assurance that system failure data security breach the Company third-party vendor will not have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations. The Company\' business subject the risks international operations. large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. The Company\' primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non-dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company\' products and the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can increase the cost the Company product components, negatively affecting the Company\' results operations. Margins sales the Company\' products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Derivative instruments, such foreign exchange forward and option positions have been utilized the Company hedge exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates. Further information related the Company\' global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk" and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company subject risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the . the future, these laws could have material adverse affect the Company. Changes accounting rules could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. Financial statements are prepared accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject interpretation various governing bodies, including the FASB and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), who interpret and create appropriate accounting regulations. change from current accounting regulations, including accounting for stock-based compensation, could have significant effect the Company\' results operations and could impact the manner which the Company conducts business. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Unanticipated changes the Company\' tax rates could affect its future results. The Company\' future effective tax rates could favorably unfavorably affected unanticipated changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. addition, the Company subject the continuous examination its income tax returns the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for income taxes. There can assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have adverse effect the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company\' stock price may volatile. The Company\' stock has times experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that have been unrelated the operating performance these companies. These factors, including lack positive performance the Company\' stock price, well general economic and political conditions and investors\' concerns regarding the credibility corporate financial reporting and integrity financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price the Company\' stock the future. addition, increases the Company\' stock price may result greater dilution earnings per share. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and its interest rate swap and option positions, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\' short-term investment policy and strategy ensure the preservation capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return light current credit and interest rate trends. The Company benchmarks its performance utilizing external money managers manage small portion the aggregate investment portfolio. The external managers adhere the Company\' investment policies and also provide occasional research and market information that supplements internal research used make credit decisions the investment process. The Company\' exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\' investment portfolio. The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\' general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. September , , $ million the Company\' investment portfolio classified short-term investments had maturities ranging from years. The remainder all had underlying maturities between and months. The Company may sell its investments prior their stated maturities, due liquidity needs, anticipation credit deterioration, for duration management. result such activity, the Company recognized net gains $ million , $ million , and $ million . order provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\' investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact that change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million decline fair value. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Except instances noted above, the Company\' policy hold investments maturity. From time time, the Company has entered into interest rate derivative transactions with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company did not enter into any interest rate derivatives during and had open interest rate derivatives September , . prior years, the Company had entered into interest rate debt swaps with financial institutions. The interest rate debt swaps required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt. Due prevailing market interest rates, during and the Company entered into and then subsequently closed out interest rate debt swap positions realizing gains $ million. The gains were deferred, recognized long-term debt and were amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. order provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\' foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (VAR) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate random market price paths. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\' foreign exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual gains and losses the future associated with the Company\' investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Company\' actual exposures and positions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data User-specified TAGGED TABLE Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page Financial Statements: Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively Inventories Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment, net Goodwill Acquired intangible assets Other assets Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , Current debt \x97 Total current liabilities , , Deferred tax liabilities and other non-current liabilities Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Deferred stock compensation ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Total shareholders\' equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\' equity $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DQ1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share and per share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development Selling, general, and administrative , , , Restructuring costs Purchased -process research and development \x97 \x97 Total operating expenses , , , Operating income (loss) ( ) Other income and expense: Gains (losses) non-current investments, net ( ) Interest and other income, net Total other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Income before accounting changes Cumulative effects accounting changes, net income taxes \x97 \x97 Net income $ $ $ Earnings per common share before accounting changes: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , Diluted , , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DS1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are thousands) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Common Stock Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Deferred Stock Compensation Retained Earnings Total Shareholders\' Equity Shares Amount Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Write-off deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , ( ) \x97 \x97 Settlement forward purchase agreement ( , ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized loss derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income Issuance restricted stock units \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Adjustment common stock related prior year acquisition ( ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DU1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating Activities: Net income Cumulative effects accounting changes, net taxes \x97 ( ) \x97 Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and accretion Stock-based compensation expense Non-cash restructuring Provision for (benefit from) deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) Loss disposition property, plant, and equipment Gains sales short-term investments, net ( ) ( ) ( ) (Gains) losses non-current investments, net ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 ( ) \x97 Purchased -process research and development \x97 \x97 Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable Other liabilities Cash generated operating activities Investing Activities: Purchases short-term investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments , , , Proceeds from sales short-term investments , , Proceeds from sales non-current investments Purchases property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used for business acquisitions \x97 \x97 ( ) Other ( ) Cash generated (used for) investing activities ( , ) ( ) Financing Activities: Payment long-term debt ( ) \x97 \x97 Proceeds from issuance common stock Cash used for repurchase common stock \x97 ( ) \x97 Cash generated financing activities Increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents ( ) , ( ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest $ $ $ Cash paid (received) for income taxes, net $ ( ) $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]DW1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops and markets line portable digital music players along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party music and audio books. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its own retail stores, its direct sales force and third-party wholesalers, resellers and value added resellers. addition its own hardware, software and peripheral products, the Company sells variety third-party hardware and software products through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business and government customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Typically, the Company\' fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Fiscal years , and were each -week years. However, approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. The Company expects add this additional week its first fiscal quarter . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity May , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity . SFAS . requires issuers classify liabilities ( assets some circumstances) certain freestanding financial instruments that embody obligations for the issuer and have characteristics both liabilities and equity. The Company adopted the provisions SFAS . June , , which resulted favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment approximately $ million. This adjustment related forward purchase agreement that allowed the Company acquire million shares its common stock average price $ per share for total cost $ million. The Company settled this forward purchase agreement August , which resulted additional gain ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' approximately $ million representing the increase fair value the agreement from June , through the settlement date. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument reported component other comprehensive income shareholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective achieving offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current earnings. For derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments, changes fair value are recognized earnings the current period. accordance with SFAS . , hedges related probable but not firmly committed transactions anticipatory nature are designated and documented hedge inception cash flow hedges and evaluated for hedge effectiveness quarterly. For foreign currency forward contracts designated cash flow hedges, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the forward exchange rate. Changes the expected future cash flows the forecasted hedged transaction and changes the fair value the forward hedge are both measured from the contract rate the forward exchange rate associated with the forward contract\' maturity date. For currency option contracts, hedge effectiveness assessed comparing the present value the cumulative change expected future cash flows the hedged transaction changes expected cash flow the option hedge maturity. The net gains losses derivative instruments qualifying cash flow hedges are reported components other comprehensive income shareholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Any hedge ineffectiveness recognized current earnings other income and expense. For interest rate swap agreements qualifying fair value hedges, the Company assumes ineffectiveness because these swaps meet the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts hedge the translation and economic exposure net investment position foreign subsidiary. For such contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the spot exchange rate. The effective portion the net gain loss derivative instrument designated hedge the net investment position foreign subsidiary reported the same manner foreign currency ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' translation adjustment. Any residual changes fair value the forward contract, including changes fair value based the differential between the spot and forward exchange rates, are recognized current earnings other income and expense. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, from years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from years. Asset Retirement Obligations September , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations , which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies legal obligations associated with the retirement long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal use the assets. SFAS . requires that the fair value liability for asset retirement obligation recognized the period which incurred reasonable estimate fair value can made. The fair value the liability added the carrying amount the associated asset and this additional carrying amount depreciated over the life the asset. All the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. The Company estimated that September , , gross expected future cash flows $ million would required fulfill these obligations. the date adoption, the Company recorded $ million long-term asset retirement liability and corresponding increase leasehold improvements. This amount represents the present value expected future cash flows associated with returning certain the Company\' leased properties original condition. The difference between the gross expected future cash flow $ million and its present value $ million September , , being accreted over the life the related leases operating expense. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment net income during the first quarter approximately $ million. This adjustment represents cumulative depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized through the date adoption SFAS . had the statement been applied the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations the time they were initially incurred. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The following table reconciles changes the Company\' asset retirement liabilities for fiscal and ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Asset retirement liability September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. For the three years ended September , , September , , and September , the Company had material impairment its long-lived assets, except for the impairment certain assets connection with the restructuring actions described Note . The Company adopted SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the first quarter fiscal . SFAS . requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that they may impaired. Prior fiscal , goodwill was amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. The Company completed its transitional goodwill impairment test October , , and its annual goodwill impairment tests August each year thereafter and found impairment. The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. SFAS . also requires that intangible assets with definite lives amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed . The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its international non- . functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged foreign currency translation included "accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" shareholders\' equity. The Company\' foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other international subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' losses from these translations were insignificant and have been included the Company\' results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale products (hardware, software, and peripherals), and extended warranty and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition . The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\' product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. Revenue from extended warranty and support contracts deferred and recognized ratably over the warranty and support periods. These contracts typically include extended phone support, certain repairs, web-based support resources, diagnostic tools, and extend the Company\' one-year basic limited parts and labor warranty. The Company sells software and peripheral products obtained from other companies. The Company establishes its own pricing and retains related inventory risk, the primary obligor sales transactions with its customers, and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenue for the sale products obtained from other companies the gross amount billed. Revenue arrangements that include multiple elements such hardware, software, and services allocated each element based the relative fair value each element, which generally determined vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE). Allocated revenue for each element recognized when revenue recognition criteria have been met for each element. VSOE determined based the price charged when each element sold separately. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\' historical experience. Generally, the Company does not offer specified unspecified upgrade rights its customers connection with software sales the sale extended warranty and support contracts. However, limited number the Company\' software products are available with maintenance agreements that grant customers rights unspecified future upgrades over the maintenance term when and available basis. Revenue associated with such maintenance recognized ratably over the maintenance term. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Shipping Costs The Company\' shipping and handling costs are included cost sales for all periods presented. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized. Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\' technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers pursuant SFAS . , Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . most instances, the Company\' products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally all software development costs have been expensed. During the fourth quarter , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Tiger"), which enhances the features and functionality the previous version Mac , subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration August and subsequent release developer beta version the product, both which were prior the planned release the final version the product the first half calendar year . Therefore, during the fourth quarter , the Company capitalized approximately $ million costs associated with development Tiger. Amortization this asset will begin when Tiger begins shipping and will recognized straight-line over year estimated useful life. During the second quarter , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with FileMaker Pro subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta version, and prior the release the final version the product March . Therefore, during the second quarter , the Company capitalized approximately $ million costs associated with the development FileMaker Pro . accordance with SFAS . , amortization this asset began March when FileMaker Pro was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis over year estimated useful life. During the third and fourth quarters , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Panther"), subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta June , and prior release the final version the product the first quarter . Therefore, during the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with the development Panther. Amortization this asset began the first quarter when Panther was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. During the third and fourth quarters , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Jaguar") subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta May , and prior release the final version the product the fourth quarter . such, the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with development Jaguar. Amortization this asset began the fourth quarter when Jaguar was ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' shipped and being recognized straight-line basis accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. addition, during , the Company also began capitalizing certain costs related development its new PowerSchool enterprise student information system. Capitalization approximately $ million began upon achievement technological feasibility the first quarter . The final version the enterprise student information system was released July . Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million, $ million, and $ million , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Restructuring Charges June , the FASB issued SFAS . , Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit Disposal Activities . SFAS . supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue . - , Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs Exit Activity (Including Certain Costs Associated with Restructuring) and requires that liability for cost associated with exit disposal activity recognized when the liability incurred, opposed when management commits exit plan. SFAS . also establishes that the liability should initially measured and recorded fair value. This Statement was effective for exit disposal activities initiated after December , . The provisions SFAS . were required applied prospectively after the adoption date newly initiated exit activities. Stock-Based Compensation The Company measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees. The Company applies the disclosure provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. The Company has elected follow APB Opinion . because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. required under SFAS . , the pro forma effects stock-based compensation net income and earnings per common share for employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan share purchases have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares amortized pro forma net income (loss) over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value freely traded options that have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected life options and the Company\' expected stock price volatility. Because the Company\' employee stock options and employee ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those freely traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, management\' opinion, the existing models not provide reliable measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares amortized pro forma net income (loss) over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Company\' pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net income\x97 reported $ $ $ Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included reported net income, net tax Deduct: Stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value based method for all awards, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income (loss)\x97pro forma $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Net income per common share\x97 reported Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Net income (loss) per common share\x97pro forma Basic $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted $ $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options, restricted stock and restricted stock units reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company\' common stock can result greater dilutive effect from outstanding options, restricted stock and restricted stock units. Additionally, the exercise employee stock options and the vesting restricted stock and restricted stock units can result greater dilutive effect earnings per share. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share: User-specified TAGGED TABLE For the Years Ended September , September , September , Numerator ( millions): Income before accounting changes $ $ $ Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 Net income $ $ $ Denominator ( thousands): Weighted-average shares outstanding, excluding unvested restricted stock , , , Effect dilutive options, restricted stock units and restricted stock , , , Denominator for diluted earnings per share , , , Basic earnings per share before accounting changes $ $ $ Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 Basic earnings per share after accounting changes $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share before accounting changes $ $ $ Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 Diluted earnings per share after accounting changes $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Potentially dilutive securities, including stock options; restricted stock units; and restricted stock, purchase approximately million, million, and million shares common stock for the years ended September , , September , , and September , , respectively, were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per share for these periods because their effect would have been antidilutive. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. Information about the Company\' products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Note \x97Financial Instruments The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\' cash and available-for-sale securities held its short-term investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments September , , and September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Cash $ $ . Treasury and Agency securities . corporate securities , , Foreign securities Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury and Agency securities , . corporate securities , Foreign securities Total short-term investments , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company\' short-term investment portfolio consists investments . Treasury and Agency securities, . corporate securities, and foreign securities. The Company\' . corporate securities consist primarily commercial paper, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities consist primarily foreign commercial paper, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company had net unrealized losses totaling $ million its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities less than year September , and net unrealized gains $ million its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities greater than year, September , . The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. result such sales, the Company recognized net gains before taxes $ million , $ million and $ million . These net gains were included interest and other income, net. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. accordance with EITF - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application Certain Investments , the following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value the Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' investments, aggregated investment category and length time that individual securities have been continuous unrealized loss position September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss . Treasury and Agencies $ , $ ( ) $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ ( ) Corporate bonds \x97 ( ) ( ) Certificate deposits ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Asset backed securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Commercial paper , ( ) \x97 \x97 , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Market values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. The declines value these investments primarily related changes interest rates and are considered temporary nature. Investments are reviewed periodically identify possible impairment. When evaluating the investments, the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition the investee, and the Company\' ability and intent hold the investment for period time which may sufficient for anticipated recovery market value. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe and Asia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\' direct customers. These credit financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. customer accounted for more than % trade receivables September , . Trade receivables from single customer, Ingram Micro, Inc., accounted for approximately % net accounts receivable September , . The following table summarizes the activity the allowance for doubtful accounts ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Beginning allowance balance $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Deductions ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending allowance balance $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these raw material components directly from suppliers. These non-trade receivables, which are included the consolidated balance sheets other current assets, totaled $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The Company does not recognize any profits these sales reflect the sale these components its net sales. Inventory Prepayment April , the Company made $ million prepayment Asian supplier for the purchase components over the following nine months. return for this deposit, the supplier agreed supply the Company with specified level components during the three consecutive fiscal quarters ended December , . During the first six months , the remaining $ million the deposit balance was fully utilized for the purchase components. The deposit was unsecured and had stated interest component. The Company imputed amount cost sales and interest income during each period the deposit was outstanding % interest rate reflect the economics this transaction. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Foreign currency forward and option contracts are used offset the foreign exchange risk certain existing assets and liabilities and hedge the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenue and cost sales. From time time, the Company enters into interest rate derivative agreements modify the interest rate profile certain investments and debt. The Company\' accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the balance sheet fair value. The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Foreign exchange instruments qualifying accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Purchased options $ $ $ $ $ $ Sold options $ $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Foreign exchange instruments other than accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ $ $ $ $ Purchased options $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ \x97 Sold options $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\' gross exposure ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. Foreign Exchange Risk Management The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risk associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions and forecasted future cash flows. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\' . dollar functional subsidiaries hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenues, and the Company\' non- . dollar functional subsidiaries selling local currencies hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\' functional currency. Other comprehensive income associated with hedges foreign currency revenues recognized component net sales the same period the related sales are recognized, and other comprehensive income related inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Typically, the Company hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenues and inventory purchases over time horizon months. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must dedesignated hedges when probable that the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with such derivative instruments are immediately reclassified into earnings other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are also reflected current earnings unless they are redesignated hedges other transactions. During , the Company recorded net losses $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. net gains, losses, similar nature were recorded . During , the Company recorded net gains $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. September , , the Company had net deferred loss associated with cash flow hedges approximately $ million, net taxes, substantially all which expected reclassified earnings the end the second quarter fiscal . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts hedge the translation and economic exposure net investment position foreign subsidiary. The Company may also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the remeasurement certain recorded assets and liabilities non-functional currencies. Changes the fair value these derivatives are recognized current earnings other income and expense offsets the changes the fair value the related assets liabilities. Due market movements, changes option time value can lead increased volatility other income and expense. Interest Rate Risk Management From time time, the Company historically entered into interest rate derivative transactions with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense any outstanding long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. prior years, the Company had entered into interest rate debt swaps with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income cash equivalents and short term investments with its fixed rate interest expense its long term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short term . interest rates. The interest rate swaps required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt. Due prevailing market interest rates, during and the Company entered into and then subsequently closed out interest rate debt swap positions realizing gains $ million which were deferred over the remaining life the debt. September , and September , , the Company had interest rate derivatives outstanding. Debt February , the Company retired $ million debt outstanding the form % unsecured notes. The notes were originally issued and were sold % par for effective yield maturity %. September , , the carrying amount these notes, including unamortized deferred gains associated with closed debt interest rate swaps, was $ million, respectively, while the fair value was $ million. The fair value the notes was based their listed market values September , . Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments and Related Gains and Losses The Company has held significant investments ARM Holdings plc (ARM), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai) and EarthLink Network, Inc. (EarthLink). These investments have been reflected the consolidated balance sheets long term assets within other assets and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. All realized gains the sale these investments have been included other income and expense. fiscal , the Company sold all its remaining non-current investments public companies. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' EarthLink January , the Company invested $ million EarthLink, Internet service provider (ISP). The investment was EarthLink\' Series Convertible Preferred Stock, which was convertible the Company after January , , into approximately million shares EarthLink common stock. Concurrent with this investment, EarthLink and the Company entered into multi-year agreement deliver ISP service Macintosh users the . Under the terms the agreement, the Company profits from each new Macintosh customer that subscribes EarthLink\' ISP service for specified period time, and EarthLink the default ISP the Company\' Internet Setup Software included with all Macintosh computers sold the . During the first quarter , the Company sold , , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, amount that approximated the Company\' carrying value the shares. During the third quarter , the Company sold all its remaining holdings EarthLink, consisting , , shares stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales EarthLink were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined that the then current decline the fair value its investment EarthLink was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment EarthLink $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company held million shares EarthLink stock valued $ million. Akamai June , the Company invested $ million Akamai, global Internet content delivery service. The investment was the form convertible preferred stock that converted into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits) the time Akamai\' initial public offering October . Beginning the first quarter , the Company categorized its shares Akamai available-for-sale. During , the Company sold its remaining , shares Akamai stock. The transaction generated proceeds approximately $ million and gain before taxes approximately $ million. During the fourth quarter , the Company sold , , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ million. September , , the Company\' remaining investment Akamai consisted , shares Akamai stock valued $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales Akamai were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined the decline the fair value its investment Akamai was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment Akamai $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT ARM ARM publicly held company the . involved the design and licensing high performance microprocessors and related technology. During the third quarter , the Company sold all its remaining holdings ARM stock, consisting , shares for net proceeds approximately $ , , and gain before taxes $ , . During the first quarter , the Company sold million shares ARM stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. sales ARM were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . Other Strategic Investments The Company has made additional minority debt and equity investments several privately held technology companies, which were reflected the consolidated balance sheets other assets. These investments were inherently risky because the products and markets these companies were typically not fully developed. During , the Company determined the decline fair value certain these investments was other-than-temporary and, accordingly, recognized charge earnings $ million. These charges were included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company had $ million equity investments reflected its consolidated balance sheet. September , , the Company had private debt equity investments reflected its consolidated balance sheet. Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) Inventories User-specified TAGGED TABLE Purchased parts $ $ Work process \x97 Finished goods Total inventories $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Other Current Assets User-specified TAGGED TABLE Vendor non-trade receivables $ $ Other current assets Total other current assets $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Property, Plant, and Equipment User-specified TAGGED TABLE Land and buildings $ $ Machinery, equipment, and internal-use software Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Other Assets User-specified TAGGED TABLE Non-current deferred tax assets $ $ Capitalized software development costs, net Other assets Total other assets $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued Expenses User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred revenue $ $ Accrued marketing and distribution Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued warranty and related costs Other current liabilities Total accrued expenses $ , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Interest and Other Income, Net User-specified TAGGED TABLE Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 Total interest and other income, net $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Note \x97Acquisitions Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. The Company ceased amortization goodwill the beginning fiscal when adopted SFAS . . The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Goodwill ( ) $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ Other acquired intangible assets ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 Acquired technology ( ) ( ) Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Accumulated amortization related goodwill $ million arising prior the adoption SFAS . has been reflected the gross carrying amount goodwill September , and September , . During the third quarter , the Company recorded adjustment approximately $ million goodwill related the acquisition PowerSchool, Inc (PowerSchool) fiscal . This reduction goodwill included the cancellation , shares Apple common stock, valued approximately $ million, that were previously held escrow and were refunded upon resolution certain matters arising out the acquisition PowerSchool. This adjustment also included approximately $ million adjust the original estimates the pre-acquisition PowerSchool restructuring liability actual costs incurred. Expected annual amortization expense related acquired technology follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years: $ Thereafter Total expected annual amortization expense $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Other acquired intangible assets amortization $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Acquired technology amortization Total amortization $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Acquisition Emagic GmbH During the fourth quarter , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH (Emagic), provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ million which was paid immediately upon closing the deal and $ million which was held-back for future payment contingent continued employment certain employees that would allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the following years. During fiscal , contingent consideration totaling $ million was paid. The acquisition has been accounted for purchase. The portion the purchase price allocated purchased -process research and development (IPR& ) was expensed immediately, and the portion the purchase price allocated acquired technology and tradename will amortized over their estimated useful lives years. Goodwill associated with the acquisition Emagic not subject amortization pursuant the provisions SFAS . . Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible assets acquired $ Acquired technology Tradename -process research and development Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates primarily Emagic\' Logic series technology and extensions. the date the acquisition, the products under development were between %- % complete, and was expected that the remaining work would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ , . The remaining efforts, which were completed , included finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined using income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Acquisition certain assets Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail During fiscal the Company acquired certain technology and patent rights Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail Corporation for total $ million cash. These transactions have been accounted for asset acquisitions. The purchase price for these asset acquisitions, except for $ million identified contingent consideration which would allocated compensation expense over the following years, has been allocated acquired technology and would amortized straight-line basis over years, except for certain assets acquired from Zayante associated with patent royalty streams that would amortized over years. Acquisition Nothing Real, LLC During the second quarter , the Company acquired certain assets Nothing Real, LLC (Nothing Real), privately-held company that develops and markets high performance tools designed for the digital image creation market. the $ million purchase price, the Company has allocated $ million acquired technology, which will amortized over its estimated life years. The remaining $ million, which has been identified contingent consideration, rather than recorded additional component ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' the cost the acquired assets, would allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the following years. Note \x97Restructuring Charges Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations. the $ million charge, $ million had been spent the end , with the remaining $ million consisting $ million for employee severance benefits and $ million for lease cancellations. During the fourth quarter , the Company recognized restructuring expense $ million. conjunction with the European workforce reduction during the second quarter , the Company vacated leased sales facility during the fourth quarter resulting charge $ million for contract termination and asset impairment costs. The Company also recognized employee termination costs $ million related the elimination non-essential positions, principally Europe. addition, the Company reversed $ , excess restructuring expense from prior periods related primarily lower than expected disposal costs Sacramento manufacturing-related fixed assets. The net cost the restructuring plans for the fourth quarter was $ million, which $ , had been paid prior the end . These actions will result the termination positions, which had been terminated prior the end . During the third quarter , the Company finalized restructuring plans related closing Company-owned manufacturing activities Sacramento. addition, the Company\' management approved restructuring plans related certain headcount reductions primarily for various sales and marketing activities principally the . Total cost the restructuring plan for the third quarter was $ million, which $ million had been paid prior the end . These actions will result the termination positions, which had been terminated prior the end . The closing manufacturing operations Sacramento resulted the elimination positions for severance cost $ million and write-off $ million manufacturing-related fixed assets whose use ceased during the third quarter . Termination sales and marketing activities, principally the ., resulted severance $ million for the elimination positions. During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved restructuring plans related the termination Company-owned manufacturing activities Sacramento and headcount reductions related primarily various sales and marketing activities the . and Europe. Total cost the actions was $ million for the termination positions. the end the fourth quarter , $ million had been spent and positions had been eliminated related these actions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during fiscal ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Employee Severance Benefits Asset Impairments Lease Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments ( ) ( ) \x97 ( ) Accrual September , $ $ \x97 $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million charge write-off deferred compensation, $ million asset impairments and $ million charge for lease cancellations. the $ million charge, all had been spent the end , except for approximately $ million related operating lease costs abandoned facilities. During the third quarter , approximately $ , the amount originally accrued for lease cancellations was determined excess due the sublease property sooner than originally estimated and shortfall approximately $ , was identified the severance accrual due higher than expected severance costs related the closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations. These adjustments had net effect reported operating expense. During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions that resulted recognition total restructuring charge $ million, including $ million severance costs and $ , for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. Actions taken the second quarter were for the most part supplemental actions initiated the prior two quarters and focused further headcount reductions various sales and marketing functions the Company\' Americas and Europe operating segments and further reductions associated with PowerSchool-related activities the Americas operating segment, including accrual for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. The second quarter actions resulted the termination employees. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost $ million that resulted the termination manufacturing operations the Company-owned facility Singapore, further reductions headcount resulting from the shift PowerSchool product strategy that took place the end fiscal , and termination various sales and marketing activities the . and Europe. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination positions worldwide. Closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations resulted severance costs $ million and costs $ million write-off manufacturing related fixed assets, whose use ceased during the first quarter. PowerSchool related costs included severance approximately $ , and recognition $ million previously deferred stock compensation that arose when PowerSchool was acquired the Company related certain PowerSchool employee stockholders who were terminated the first quarter . Termination sales and marketing activities and employees, principally the . and Europe, resulted severance costs $ million and accrual costs associated with operating leases ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' closed facilities $ million. The total net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the first quarter also reflects the reversal $ , unused restructuring accrual originally made during the first quarter . The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during fiscal ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Employee Severance Benefits Deferred Compensation Write-off Asset Impairments Lease Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 Accrual September , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Restructuring Actions During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. During the fourth quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million designed reduce headcount costs corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million, all which were eliminated September , . Eliminated positions were primarily corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development the Americas operating segment. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool\' PSE product. This shift resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the PSE product the amount $ million. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. The Company ceased using the assets associated with first quarter restructuring actions during that same quarter. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled $ million. The first quarter restructuring actions were primarily related corporate activity not allocated operating segments. During the first quarter , the Company reversed the remaining unused accrual $ , . All amounts associated with the fiscal restructuring actions had been spent the end fiscal . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Federal: Current $ $ $ Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) State: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million and $ million , , and , respectively. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' September , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves Basis capital assets and investments Tax losses and credits Other Total deferred tax assets Less valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire from through . portion these carryforwards was acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has Federal credit carryforwards and various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . The remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates primarily the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EE1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Computed expected tax $ $ $ State taxes, net federal effect ( ) ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( ) ( ) \x97 Nondeductible executive compensation ( ) Stock repurchase \x97 ( ) \x97 Purchase accounting and asset acquisitions \x97 Change valuation allowance \x97 \x97 ( ) Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible expenses Other items Provision for income taxes $ $ $ Effective tax rate % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its field audit the Company\' federal income tax returns for all years prior and proposed certain adjustments. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for these years have been resolved. addition, the Company also subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\' tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Note \x97Shareholders\' Equity Restricted Stock Units During fiscal , the Company\' Board Directors approved the grant million restricted stock units selected members the Company\' senior management, excluding its Chief Executive Officer (CEO). These restricted stock units generally vest two equal installments the second and fourth anniversaries the date grant. The Company has recorded the $ million value these restricted stock units component shareholders\' equity and will amortize that amount straight-line basis over the year requisite service period. The value the restricted stock units was based the closing market price the Company\' common stock the date grant. Quarterly amortization will approximately $ million, which approximately $ million will included cost sales; $ million will included research and development expense; and the remaining $ million will included selling, general and administrative expense. The restricted stock units have been included the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. CEO Restricted Stock Award March , , the Company entered into Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the Agreement) with . Steven . Jobs, its CEO. The Agreement cancelled stock option ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' awards for the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock previously granted . Jobs and . . Jobs retained options purchase , shares the Company\' common stock granted August his capacity member the Company\' Board Directors, prior becoming the Company\' CEO. The Agreement replaced the cancelled options with restricted stock award million shares the Company\' common stock. The restricted stock award generally vests three years from date grant. Vesting some all the restricted shares will accelerated the event . Jobs terminated without cause, dies, has his management role reduced following change control the Company. The Company has recorded the value the restricted stock award $ million component shareholders\' equity and amortizing that amount straight-line basis over the year service period. The value the restricted stock award was based the closing market price the Company\' common stock $ the date the award. Amortization expense for this award, which amounts approximately $ million per quarter, has been included selling, general, and administrative expense beginning March and will continue included through March . The million restricted shares have been included the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company\' common stock had fair value $ . Other than this forward purchase transaction, the Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock since fiscal . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . Preferred Stock The Company has million shares authorized preferred stock, none which outstanding. Under the terms the Company\' Restated Articles Incorporation, the Board Directors authorized determine alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions the Company\' authorized but unissued shares preferred stock. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The following table summarizes the components accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net taxes ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ $ Unrealized losses derivative investments ( ) ( ) ( ) Cumulative foreign currency translation ( ) ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related available-for-sale securities, net taxes ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change fair value available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Adjustment for net (gains) losses realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain loss available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities was $ million, $ million, and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The tax effect the reclassification adjustment for net gains (losses) included net income was $ million, $( ) million and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Changes fair value derivatives $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Adjustment for net gains(losses) realized and included net income ( ) Change unrealized gain loss derivative instruments $ $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $ million, $11million and $( ) million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains (losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income was $( ) million, $( ) million and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans Employee Stock Option Plan the Annual Meeting Shareholders held April , , the shareholders approved amendment the Executive Officer Stock Plan change the name the plan the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), provide for broad-based grants all employees addition executive officers and other key employees and prohibit future "repricings" employee stock options, including -months-plus- -day option exchange programs, without shareholder approval. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' either annual quarterly vesting. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. result shareholder approval amendments the Executive Officer Stock Plan April , the Company terminated the Employee Stock Option Plan and cancelled all remaining unissued shares totaling , , following the completion employee stock option exchange program October . Employee Stock Option Exchange Program March , , the Company announced voluntary employee stock option exchange program (the Exchange Program) whereby eligible employees, other than executive officers and members the Board Directors, had opportunity exchange outstanding options with exercise prices above $ per share for predetermined smaller number new stock options issued with exercise prices equal the fair market value one share the Company\' common stock the day the new awards are issued, which was least six months plus one day after the exchange options are cancelled. April , , accordance with the Exchange Program, the Company cancelled options purchase , , shares its common stock. October , , new stock options totaling , , shares were issued employees exercise price $ per share, which equivalent the closing price the Company\' stock that date. financial accounting impact the Company\' financial position, results operations cash flow was associated with this transaction. Director Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors adopted shareholder approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP) for non-employee directors the Company. Initial grants , options under the DSOP vest three equal installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant, and subsequent annual grants , options are fully vested grant. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans Certain the Company\' executive officers, including . Timothy . Cook, . Jonathan Rubinstein, . Bertrand Serlet, and . Avadis Tevanian, ., have entered into trading plans pursuant Rule 10b5- ( )( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended. trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company\' stock including the exercise and sale employee stock options and shares acquired pursuant the Company\' employee stock purchase plan and upon vesting restricted stock units. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end six month offering periods. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' $ , any calendar year. Beginning with the six-month offering period that started June , , the number shares authorized for issuance limited total million shares per offering period. During , , and , million, million, and million, respectively were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Stock Option Activity summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , , September , and September , follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Outstanding Options Shares Available for Grant Number Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Balance September , , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Restricted Stock Granted ( , ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Restricted Stock Units Granted ( , ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EG1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT The options outstanding September , have been segregated into five ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Outstanding September , Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Life Years Weighted Average Exercise Price Options Exercisable September , Weighted Average Exercise Price $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company had exercisable options purchase million shares outstanding with weighted average exercise price $ per share. September , , the Company had exercisable options purchase million shares outstanding with weighted average exercise price $ per share. The Company had million restricted stock units outstanding September , , which were excluded from the options outstanding balances the preceding tables. None these restricted stock units were vested September , . The grant these restricted stock units has been deducted from the shares available for grant under the Company\' stock option plans. Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation The Company has provided pro forma disclosures Note these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value method accounting for stock compensation had been used for its employee stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan purchases. These pro forma effects have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the option awards issued October and the awards cancelled part the Employee Stock Option Exchange Program have been accounted for using modification accounting. accordance with SFAS . , the grant date the awards issued the date acceptance the exchange offer participating employees. The cancellation certain the Company\' CEO\' options and replacement with restricted shares March also being accounted for using modification accounting for purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Expected life stock options years - years years Expected life stock purchases months months months Interest rate\x97stock options %- % %- % % Interest rate\x97stock purchases %- % %- % % Volatility\x97stock options % %- % % Volatility\x97stock purchases %- % %- % % Dividend yields \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value stock purchases during the year $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the expected volatility assumptions used the Company prior the third quarter had been based solely the historical volatility the Company\' common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life the Company\' stock options. Beginning the third quarter , the Company has modified this approach consider other relevant factors including implied volatility market traded options the Company\' common stock and the impact unusual fluctuations not reasonably expected recur the historical volatility the Company\' common stock. The Company will continue monitor these and other relevant factors developing the expected volatility assumption used value future awards. Beginning the third quarter , the Company shortened its estimate the expected life new options granted its employees from years years. The Company bases its expected life assumption its historical experience and the terms and conditions the stock options grants employees. The change the expected life assumption made during the third quarter was the result the expected impact shortening the contractual life new options granted employees from years years and changing the vesting provisions new options granted employees from year straight-line annual vesting year straight-line quarterly vesting. Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance-sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\' total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ million, which $ million related leases for retail space. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued Warranty and Indemnifications The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\' typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future expectations. The following table reconciles changes the Company\' accrued warranties and related costs ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ Cost warranty claims ( ) ( ) ( ) Accruals for product warranties Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\' CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, the majority which occurs various parts Asia. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. Contingencies Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the . District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company believes these claims are without merit and intends defend them vigorously. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave Plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. Plaintiffs filed their amended complaint January , , and March , , the Company filed motion dismiss the amended complaint. The Court heard the Company\' motion July , and dismissed Plaintiffs\' claims with prejudice August , . Plaintiffs have appealed the ruling. The Company subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates including various European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the . Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations and financial position. Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data accordance with SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , the Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan and excludes revenue from the Company\' own retail stores Japan, which included the Company\' Retail segment. The Retail segment operated Apple-owned retail stores the . and Japan during fiscal . Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , "Summary Significant Accounting Policies," except described below for the Retail segment. The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales. The Retail segment\' performance also evaluated based operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, manufacturing costs not included standard costs, income taxes, and various nonrecurring charges. Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and retail store construction- -progress that not subject depreciation. Except for the Retail segment, capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Capital expenditures the Retail segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Operating income for all segments, except Retail, includes cost sales manufacturing standard cost, other cost sales, related sales and marketing costs, and certain general and administrative costs. This measure operating income, which includes manufacturing profit, provides comparable basis for comparison between the Company\' various geographic segments. Certain manufacturing expenses and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' related adjustments not included segment cost sales, including variances between standard and actual manufacturing costs and the mark- above standard cost for product supplied the Retail segment, are included corporate expenses. Management assesses the operating performance the Retail segment differently than assesses the operating performance the Company\' geographic segments. The Retail segment revenue and operating income intended depict comparable measure that the Company\' major channel partners the . operating retail stores the Company can evaluate the Retail segment performance were channel partner. Therefore, the Company makes three significant adjustments the Retail segment for management reporting purposes that are not included the results the Company\' other segments. First, the Retail segment\' operating income includes cost sales for Apple products amount normally charged major channel partners the . operating retail stores, less the cost sales programs and incentives provided those channel partners and the Company\' cost support those partners. For the years ended September , , September , , and September , , this resulted the recognition additional cost sales above standard cost the Retail segment and offsetting benefit corporate expenses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Second, the Company\' extended warranty, support and service contracts are transferred the Retail segment the same cost that charged the Company\' major retail channel partners the ., resulting comparable measure revenue and gross margin between the Company\' Retail stores and those retail channel partners. The Retail segment recognizes the full amount revenue and cost sales the time sale the Company\' extended warranty, support and service contracts. Because the Company has not yet earned the revenue incurred the costs associated with the sale these contracts, offset these amounts recognized other operating segments\' net sales and cost sales. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment, with corresponding offsets other operating segments, $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , the net sales and cost sales recognized the Retail segment for sales extended warranty, support and service contracts were $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment $ million and $ million, respectively. Third, the Company has opened six high profile stores New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco, Tokyo, Japan and Osaka, Japan September , and has additional store under development London, England, which expected open the end calendar year . These high profile stores are larger than the Company\' typical retail stores and were designed further promote brand awareness and provide venue for certain corporate sales and marketing activities, including corporate briefings. such, the Company allocates certain operating expenses associated with these stores corporate marketing expense reflect the estimated benefit realized Company-wide. The allocation these operating costs based the excess amount incurred for high profile store that more typical Company retail location. Expenses allocated corporate marketing resulting from the operations these stores were $ million, $ million and $ million for the years ended September , , September , , and September , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Summary information operating segment follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ $ $ Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Japan: Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Retail: Net sales $ , $ $ Operating income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Depreciation, amortization and accretion ( ) $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ $ $ Other Segments ( ): Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the . Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. Retail store construction- -progress, which not subject depreciation, reflected corporate assets. ( ) Other Segments include Asia-Pacific and FileMaker. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' reconciliation the Company\' segment operating income and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Segment operating income $ $ $ Corporate expenses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Purchased -process research and development \x97 \x97 ( ) Restructuring costs ( ) ( ) ( ) Consolidated operating income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ Segment assets $ , $ , $ Corporate assets , $ , $ , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Corporate depreciation, amortization and accretion Consolidated depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE large portion the Company\' net sales derived from its international operations. Also, majority the raw materials used the Company\' products obtained from sources outside the ., and majority the products sold the Company assembled internationally the Company\' facility Cork, Ireland third-party vendors Taiwan, Korea, the Netherlands, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , . Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the ., Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: . $ , $ , $ , Japan Other Countries , , , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , Long-Lived Assets: . $ $ $ Japan Other Countries Total Long-Lived Assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: Power Macintosh ( ) $ , $ , $ , PowerBook , , iMac ( ) , , iBook Total Macintosh Net Sales $ , $ , $ , iPod , Other Music Products ( ) Peripherals and other hardware ( ) Software ( ) Service and other Net Sales Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Includes Xserve product line. ( ) Includes eMac product line. ( ) Other Music Products includes iTunes Music Store sales and iPod related services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod-related accessories. ( ) Net sales peripherals and other hardware include sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Net sales software include sales Apple-branded operating system and application software and sales third-party software. Note \x97Related Party Transactions and Certain Other Transactions March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its CEO, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement became effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . The Company recognized total $ , , $ , , and $ , , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during , and , respectively. All expenses recognized pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement have been included selling, general, and administrative expenses the consolidated statements operations. connection with relocation assistance package, the Company May loaned . Ronald . Johnson, Senior Vice President, Retail, $ million for the purchase his principal residence. The loan was secured deed trust and was due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. . Johnson repaid $ , this loan fiscal and repaid the remaining balance $ , fiscal . . Jerome York, member the Board Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. (MicroWarehouse) January . Until September , , also served Microwarehouse\' Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse was reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products, including products made the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Company. September , , CDW Corporation (CDW), acquired selected North American assets MicroWarehouse. MicroWarehouse subsequently filed for Chapter bankruptcy protection the . MicroWarehouse accounted for approximately %, % and % the Company\' net sales for the years ended September , , September , , and September , , respectively. Trade receivables from MicroWarehouse were $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The Company has provided what believes adequate allowance the outstanding receivable based the Company\' secured interest position selected MicroWarehouse assets and the expected payments unsecured creditors. Sales MicroWarehouse and related trade receivables were generally subject the same terms and conditions those with the Company\' other resellers. addition, the Company has purchased miscellaneous equipment and supplies from MicroWarehouse. Total purchases amounted approximately $ million and $ million for the years ended September , and September , , respectively. purchases were made the Company from MicroWarehouse fiscal . Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income (loss) $ $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income during the fourth, third, and second quarters included restructuring charges, net tax, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Net income during the fourth and third quarters included after-tax net gains related non-current investments $ million and $ million, respectively. Net income for the fourth quarter also included settlement the Company\' forward purchase agreement resulting gain $ million and favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment related the adoption SFAS . $ million. Net income (loss) during the second and first quarters included restructuring charges, net tax, $ million and $ million, respectively. Net loss for the first quarter included after-tax unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment for the adoption SFAS $ million. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EI1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the consolidated financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method accounting for asset retirement obligations and for financial instruments with characteristics both liabilities and equity and changed its method accounting for goodwill . User-specified TAGGED TABLE / / KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Mountain View, California October , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EM1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\' management, the Company\' principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\' disclosure controls and procedures ( defined under the Securities Exchange Act , amended ( Exchange Act )) were effective September , ensure that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. There were significant changes the Company\' internal control over financial reporting identified management\' evaluation during the fourth quarter fiscal that have materially affected are reasonably likely materially affect the Company\' internal control over financial reporting. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\' seven directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Position With the Company Age Director Since Fred . Anderson Director William . Campbell Director Millard . Drexler Director Albert Gore, . Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson Director Jerome . York Director end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Fred . Anderson has been founding partner Elevation Partners, private equity firm focused the media and entertainment industry, since July . Previously, . Anderson served the Company\' Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April June . . Anderson also serves the Board Directors eBay Inc. and piphany, Inc. William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("Intuit") since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the Board Directors Opsware, Inc. Millard . Drexler has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Crew Group, Inc. since January . Previously, . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . Albert Gore, . has served Senior Advisor Google, Inc. since . has also served Executive Chairman INdTV since and Chairman Generation Investment Management since . visiting professor Fisk University and Middle Tennessee State University. . Gore was inaugurated the 45th Vice President the . . was -elected and served for total eight years President the Senate, member the Cabinet and the National Security Council. Prior , served eight years the . Senate and eight years the . House Representatives. Steven . Jobs one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. (" NeXT" ) and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. Arthur . Levinson, . has been Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. (" Genentech" ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . . Levinson also serves the Board Directors Google, Inc. Jerome . York has been Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Capital Corporation, private investment company which controls, since September . From January until September , . York was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer MicroWarehouse, Inc., reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products. From September October , was Vice Chairman Tracinda ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Corporation. From May September was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IBM Corporation, and served member IBM\' Board Directors from January August . . York also director Tyco International Ltd. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. Role the Board; Corporate Governance Matters the paramount duty the Board Directors oversee the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management the competent and ethical operation the Company day- -day basis and assure that the long-term interests the shareholders are being served. satisfy this duty, the directors take proactive, focused approach their position, and set standards ensure that the Company committed business success through maintenance the highest standards responsibility and ethics. Members the Board bring the Company wide range experience, knowledge and judgment. These varied skills mean that good governance depends far more than "check the box" approach standards procedures. The governance structure the Company designed working structure for principled actions, effective decision-making and appropriate monitoring both compliance and performance. The key practices and procedures the Board are outlined the Corporate Governance Guidelines available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Board Committees The Board has standing Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (" Nominating Committee" ) and Audit and Finance Committee (" Audit Committee "). The Compensation Committee primarily responsible for reviewing the compensation arrangements for the Company\' executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and for administering the Company\' stock option plans. Members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler and Gore. The Nominating Committee assists the Board identifying qualified individuals become directors, determines the composition the Board and its committees, monitors the process assess Board effectiveness and helps develop and implement the Company\' corporate governance guidelines. Members the Nominating Committee are Messrs. Drexler and Gore and . Levinson. The Audit Committee primarily responsible for overseeing the services performed the Company\' independent auditors and internal audit department, evaluating the Company\' accounting policies and its system internal controls and reviewing significant financial transactions. Members the Audit Committee are Messrs. Campbell and York and . Levinson. The Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees operate under written charters adopted the Board. These charters are available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Audit Committee Financial Expert While more than one member the Company\' Audit Committee qualifies "audit committee financial expert" under Item ( ) Regulation - , . Jerome . York, the Committee chairperson, the designated audit committee financial expert. . York considered "independent" the term used Item ( )( )( ) Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act. Code Ethics The Company has code ethics that applies all the Company\' employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and its Board Directors. copy this code, "Ethics: The Way Business Worldwide" available the Company\' website www apple com investor. The Company intends disclose any changes waivers from its code ethics posting such information its website filing Form - . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled " Directors ." Timothy . Cook , Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation (" Compaq" ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (" ADP" ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, iPod Division (age ), joined the Company February . . Rubinstein also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering. Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that, . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Bertrand Serlet, . , Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. NeXT, . Serlet held several engineering and managerial positions, including Director Web Engineering. Prior NeXT, from , . Serlet worked research engineer Xerox PARC. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. . Tevanian served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Software Engineering from July . With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. Item . Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the " Named Executive Officers" ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE User-specified TAGGED TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Restricted Stock Award ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer \x97 \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , , \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 , , ( ) \x97 \x97 , , ( ) Timothy . Cook Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Ronald . Johnson Senior Vice President, Retail , , , , , , , \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 Jonathan Rubinstein Senior Vice President, iPod Division , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Avadis Tevanian, . Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer , , , , \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. March , the Board awarded . Jobs five million restricted shares the Company\' Common Stock, that generally vest full the third anniversary the grant date. ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for past services the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . fiscal , approximately $ million paid the Company towards the purchase the plane and approximately $ million related tax assistance was reported income . Jobs. ( ) Market value restricted stock units granted March , (based $ per share, the closing price the Company\' common stock the NASDAQ National Market the day grant). Restricted stock units generally vest over four years with % the total number shares vesting each the second and fourth anniversary the grant date. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. Option Grants Last Fiscal Year There were options granted the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year , although restricted stock units which are shown above the Summary Compensation Table, were granted. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES User-specified TAGGED TABLE Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name Shares Acquired Exercise (#) Value Realized ($) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , ( ) \x97 $ , , ( ) $ \x97 Timothy . Cook , , , , \x97 , $ \x97 $ , , Ronald . Johnson \x97 \x97 , , , $ , , $ , , Jonathan . Rubinstein , , , , , , $ , , $ , , Avadis Tevanian, . , , , , , , $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the NASDAQ National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Consists , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. Director Compensation The form and amount director compensation determined the Board after review recommendations made the Nominating Committee. The current practice the Board base substantial portion director\' annual retainer equity. , shareholders approved the Director Stock Option Plan (the " Director Plan" ) and , shares were reserved for issuance thereunder. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board (" Initial Options" ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock (" Annual Options" ). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Non-employee directors also receive $ , annual retainer paid quarterly increments. addition, directors receive two free computer systems per year and are eligible purchase additional equipment discount. Directors not receive any additional consideration for serving committees committee chairperson. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. William . Campbell, Millard . Drexler, and Albert Gore, ., none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered "independent" directors under the applicable NASDAQ rules. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee. executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information November , (the " Table Date ") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading " Executive Compensation; " and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. addition, unless otherwise indicated, all persons named below can reached Apple Computer, Inc., Infinite Loop, Cupertino, . Security Ownership % Holders, Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Private Capital Management, Inc. , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson , * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Albert Gore, . , ( ) * Ronald . Johnson , , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Jonathan . Rubinstein , ( ) * Avadis Tevanian, . , , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , ( ) % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form - showing holdings September , Private Capital Management, Inc. Private Capital Management, Inc. lists its address Pelican Bay Blvd., Naples, , , such filing. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Campbell has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Gore has the right acquire exercise stock options. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that . Johnson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock that . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that . Tevanian has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . York has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that executive officers directors have the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (" SEC "). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that all Section ( ) filing requirements were met during fiscal year . Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\' equity compensation plans. User-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Options ( ) Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding Options ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , , $ \x97 Total equity compensation plans( ) , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan and , , shares available for issuance under the Employee Stock Plan. The grant , , shares restricted stock units have been deducted from the number shares available for future issuance. does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan which was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' ( ) This table does not include , outstanding options assumed connection with mergers and acquisitions the companies which originally established those plans. These assumed options have weighted average exercise price $ per share. additional options may granted under those assumed plans. Arrangements with Named Executive Officers Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options, Restricted Stock, and Restricted Stock Units the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options, restricted stock grants, and restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers generally provide that the event there "change control," defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control," their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason," those options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units outstanding that are not yet vested the date such "change control" shall become fully vested. Further, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers also provide that, the event the Company terminates the Officer without cause any time, the restricted stock units and restricted stock will vest full. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, Retail) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan was secured deed trust and was due and payable May . The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , . . Johnson repaid the Company $ , during the fiscal year and the loan has been repaid full. March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Item . Principal Accountant Fees and Services The following table sets forth the fees paid the Company\' independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, during fiscal years and . Audit and Non-Audit Fees User-specified TAGGED TABLE Audit Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , Audit-Related Fees , ( ) , Tax Fees , ( ) , , All Other Fees \x97 \x97 Total $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Audit fees relate professional services rendered connection with the audit the Company\' annual financial statements, quarterly review financial statements included the Company\' Forms - , and audit services provided connection with other statutory and regulatory filings. ( ) Audit-related fees include professional services related the audit the Company\' financial statements, consultation accounting standards transactions, and audits employee benefit plans. ( ) Tax fees include $ , for professional services rendered connection with tax compliance and preparation relating the Company\' expatriate program, tax audits and international tax compliance; and $ , for tax consulting and planning services relating interest computations and international tax changes. The Company does not engage KPMG perform personal tax services for its executive officers. Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Prior the enactment the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the " Act "), the Company adopted auditor independence policy that banned its auditors from performing non-financial consulting services, such information technology consulting and internal audit services. This auditor policy also mandates that the audit and non-audit services and the related budget approved the Audit Committee advance, and that the Audit Committee provided with quarterly reporting actual spending. This policy also mandates that auditor engagements for non-audit services may entered into without the express approval the Audit Committee. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. ( ) Index Exhibits User-specified TAGGED TABLE Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Filing Date/ Period End Date Filed herewith Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . - -Laws the Company, amended through June , . - Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York. - Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Form the Company\' / % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. - Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. - Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - - Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - - Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. - Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . - Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through April , . - Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. - insert table folio ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]JA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' end table folio Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . - Director Stock Option Plan. - Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through April , . - Reimbursement Agreement dated May , and between the Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement dated March , and between The Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - Form Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement - Custom Sales Agreement effective October , between the Registrant and International Business Machines Corporation. - Code Ethics the Company - Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Rule13a- ( )/15d- ( ) Certification Chief Executive Officer Rule13a- ( )/15d- ( ) Certification Chief Financial Officer Section Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]JA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 30th day November . User-specified TAGGED TABLE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / PETER OPPENHEIMER Peter Oppenheimer Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Peter Oppenheimer, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Title Date / / STEVEN . JOBS STEVEN . JOBS Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer) November , / / PETER OPPENHEIMER PETER OPPENHEIMER Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Principal Accounting Officer) November , / / FRED ANDERSON FRED ANDERSON Director November , / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL WILLIAM . CAMPBELL Director November , / / MILLARD . DREXLER MILLARD . DREXLER Director November , / / ALBERT GORE, . ALBERT GORE, . Director November , / / ARTHUR . LEVINSON ARTHUR . LEVINSON Director November , / / JEROME . YORK JEROME . YORK Director November , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]JC1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN SEQ=,FILE=\'QUICKLINK\',USER=DNICHOL,SEQ=,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" " TOCEXISTFLA', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\' seven directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Position With the Company Age Director Since Fred . Anderson Director William . Campbell Director Millard . Drexler Director Albert Gore, . Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson Director Jerome . York Director end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Fred . Anderson has been founding partner Elevation Partners, private equity firm focused the media and entertainment industry, since July . Previously, . Anderson served the Company\' Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April June . . Anderson also serves the Board Directors eBay Inc. and piphany, Inc. William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("Intuit") since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the Board Directors Opsware, Inc. Millard . Drexler has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Crew Group, Inc. since January . Previously, . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . Albert Gore, . has served Senior Advisor Google, Inc. since . has also served Executive Chairman INdTV since and Chairman Generation Investment Management since . visiting professor Fisk University and Middle Tennessee State University. . Gore was inaugurated the 45th Vice President the . . was -elected and served for total eight years President the Senate, member the Cabinet and the National Security Council. Prior , served eight years the . Senate and eight years the . House Representatives. Steven . Jobs one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. (" NeXT" ) and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. Arthur . Levinson, . has been Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. (" Genentech" ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . . Levinson also serves the Board Directors Google, Inc. Jerome . York has been Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Capital Corporation, private investment company which controls, since September . From January until September , . York was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer MicroWarehouse, Inc., reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products. From September October , was Vice Chairman Tracinda ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Corporation. From May September was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IBM Corporation, and served member IBM\' Board Directors from January August . . York also director Tyco International Ltd. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. Role the Board; Corporate Governance Matters the paramount duty the Board Directors oversee the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management the competent and ethical operation the Company day- -day basis and assure that the long-term interests the shareholders are being served. satisfy this duty, the directors take proactive, focused approach their position, and set standards ensure that the Company committed business success through maintenance the highest standards responsibility and ethics. Members the Board bring the Company wide range experience, knowledge and judgment. These varied skills mean that good governance depends far more than "check the box" approach standards procedures. The governance structure the Company designed working structure for principled actions, effective decision-making and appropriate monitoring both compliance and performance. The key practices and procedures the Board are outlined the Corporate Governance Guidelines available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Board Committees The Board has standing Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (" Nominating Committee" ) and Audit and Finance Committee (" Audit Committee "). The Compensation Committee primarily responsible for reviewing the compensation arrangements for the Company\' executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and for administering the Company\' stock option plans. Members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler and Gore. The Nominating Committee assists the Board identifying qualified individuals become directors, determines the composition the Board and its committees, monitors the process assess Board effectiveness and helps develop and implement the Company\' corporate governance guidelines. Members the Nominating Committee are Messrs. Drexler and Gore and . Levinson. The Audit Committee primarily responsible for overseeing the services performed the Company\' independent auditors and internal audit department, evaluating the Company\' accounting policies and its system internal controls and reviewing significant financial transactions. Members the Audit Committee are Messrs. Campbell and York and . Levinson. The Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees operate under written charters adopted the Board. These charters are available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Audit Committee Financial Expert While more than one member the Company\' Audit Committee qualifies "audit committee financial expert" under Item ( ) Regulation - , . Jerome . York, the Committee chairperson, the designated audit committee financial expert. . York considered "independent" the term used Item ( )( )( ) Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act. Code Ethics The Company has code ethics that applies all the Company\' employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and its Board Directors. copy this code, "Ethics: The Way Business Worldwide" available the Company\' website www apple com investor. The Company intends disclose any changes waivers from its code ethics posting such information its website filing Form - . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled " Directors ." Timothy . Cook , Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation (" Compaq" ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (" ADP" ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, iPod Division (age ), joined the Company February . . Rubinstein also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering. Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that, . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Bertrand Serlet, . , Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. NeXT, . Serlet held several engineering and managerial positions, including Director Web Engineering. Prior NeXT, from , . Serlet worked research engineer Xerox PARC. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. . Tevanian served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Software Engineering from July . With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the " Named Executive Officers" ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE User-specified TAGGED TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Restricted Stock Award ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer \x97 \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , , \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 , , ( ) \x97 \x97 , , ( ) Timothy . Cook Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Ronald . Johnson Senior Vice President, Retail , , , , , , , \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 Jonathan Rubinstein Senior Vice President, iPod Division , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Avadis Tevanian, . Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer , , , , \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. March , the Board awarded . Jobs five million restricted shares the Company\' Common Stock, that generally vest full the third anniversary the grant date. ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for past services the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . fiscal , approximately $ million paid the Company towards the purchase the plane and approximately $ million related tax assistance was reported income . Jobs. ( ) Market value restricted stock units granted March , (based $ per share, the closing price the Company\' common stock the NASDAQ National Market the day grant). Restricted stock units generally vest over four years with % the total number shares vesting each the second and fourth anniversary the grant date. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. Option Grants Last Fiscal Year There were options granted the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year , although restricted stock units which are shown above the Summary Compensation Table, were granted. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES User-specified TAGGED TABLE Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name Shares Acquired Exercise (#) Value Realized ($) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , ( ) \x97 $ , , ( ) $ \x97 Timothy . Cook , , , , \x97 , $ \x97 $ , , Ronald . Johnson \x97 \x97 , , , $ , , $ , , Jonathan . Rubinstein , , , , , , $ , , $ , , Avadis Tevanian, . , , , , , , $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the NASDAQ National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Consists , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. Director Compensation The form and amount director compensation determined the Board after review recommendations made the Nominating Committee. The current practice the Board base substantial portion director\' annual retainer equity. , shareholders approved the Director Stock Option Plan (the " Director Plan" ) and , shares were reserved for issuance thereunder. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board (" Initial Options" ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock (" Annual Options" ). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Non-employee directors also receive $ , annual retainer paid quarterly increments. addition, directors receive two free computer systems per year and are eligible purchase additional equipment discount. Directors not receive any additional consideration for serving committees committee chairperson. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. William . Campbell, Millard . Drexler, and Albert Gore, ., none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered "independent" directors under the applicable NASDAQ rules. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee. executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information November , (the " Table Date ") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading " Executive Compensation; " and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. addition, unless otherwise indicated, all persons named below can reached Apple Computer, Inc., Infinite Loop, Cupertino, . Security Ownership % Holders, Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Private Capital Management, Inc. , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson , * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Albert Gore, . , ( ) * Ronald . Johnson , , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Jonathan . Rubinstein , ( ) * Avadis Tevanian, . , , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , ( ) % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form - showing holdings September , Private Capital Management, Inc. Private Capital Management, Inc. lists its address Pelican Bay Blvd., Naples, , , such filing. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Campbell has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Gore has the right acquire exercise stock options. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that . Johnson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock that . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that . Tevanian has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . York has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that executive officers directors have the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (" SEC "). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that all Section ( ) filing requirements were met during fiscal year . Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\' equity compensation plans. User-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Options ( ) Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding Options ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , , $ \x97 Total equity compensation plans( ) , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan and , , shares available for issuance under the Employee Stock Plan. The grant , , shares restricted stock units have been deducted from the number shares available for future issuance. does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan which was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' ( ) This table does not include , outstanding options assumed connection with mergers and acquisitions the companies which originally established those plans. These assumed options have weighted average exercise price $ per share. additional options may granted under those assumed plans. Arrangements with Named Executive Officers Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options, Restricted Stock, and Restricted Stock Units the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options, restricted stock grants, and restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers generally provide that the event there "change control," defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control," their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason," those options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units outstanding that are not yet vested the date such "change control" shall become fully vested. Further, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers also provide that, the event the Company terminates the Officer without cause any time, the restricted stock units and restricted stock will vest full. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, Retail) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan was secured deed trust and was due and payable May . The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , . . Johnson repaid the Company $ , during the fiscal year and the loan has been repaid full. March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services The following table sets forth the fees paid the Company\' independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, during fiscal years and . Audit and Non-Audit Fees User-specified TAGGED TABLE Audit Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , Audit-Related Fees , ( ) , Tax Fees , ( ) , , All Other Fees \x97 \x97 Total $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Audit fees relate professional services rendered connection with the audit the Company\' annual financial statements, quarterly review financial statements included the Company\' Forms - , and audit services provided connection with other statutory and regulatory filings. ( ) Audit-related fees include professional services related the audit the Company\' financial statements, consultation accounting standards transactions, and audits employee benefit plans. ( ) Tax fees include $ , for professional services rendered connection with tax compliance and preparation relating the Company\' expatriate program, tax audits and international tax compliance; and $ , for tax consulting and planning services relating interest computations and international tax changes. The Company does not engage KPMG perform personal tax services for its executive officers. Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Prior the enactment the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the " Act "), the Company adopted auditor independence policy that banned its auditors from performing non-financial consulting services, such information technology consulting and internal audit services. This auditor policy also mandates that the audit and non-audit services and the related budget approved the Audit Committee advance, and that the Audit Committee provided with quarterly reporting actual spending. This policy also mandates that auditor engagements for non-audit services may entered into without the express approval the Audit Committee. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]EO1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. ( ) Index Exhibits User-specified TAGGED TABLE Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Filing Date/ Period End Date Filed herewith Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . - -Laws the Company, amended through June , . - Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York. - Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Form the Company\' / % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. - Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. - Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - - Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - - Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. - Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . - Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through April , . - Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. - insert table folio ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]JA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' end table folio Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . - Director Stock Option Plan. - Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through April , . - Reimbursement Agreement dated May , and between the Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement dated March , and between The Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - Form Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement - Custom Sales Agreement effective October , between the Registrant and International Business Machines Corporation. - Code Ethics the Company - Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Rule13a- ( )/15d- ( ) Certification Chief Executive Officer Rule13a- ( )/15d- ( ) Certification Chief Financial Officer Section Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK027:[04PAL0 04PAL1620]JA1620A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\'; -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}