{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background The Company designs, manufactures and markets smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories, and sells variety related services. The Company’ fiscal year the - -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company California corporation established . Products iPhone iPhone ® the Company’ line smartphones based its iOS operating system. September , the Company introduced three new iPhones: iPhone , iPhone Pro and iPhone Pro Max. Mac Mac ® the Company’ line personal computers based its macOS ® operating system. During , the Company released new version MacBook Air ® and new Mac mini ® , and introduced updated Mac Pro ® , which expected available the fall . iPad iPad ® the Company’ line multi-purpose tablets. iPad based the Company’ iPadOS™ operating system, which was introduced during . Also during , the Company released two new versions iPad Pro ® , iPad Air ® , updated iPad mini ® and new -inch iPad. Wearables, Home and Accessories Wearables, Home and Accessories includes AirPods ® , Apple ® , Apple Watch ® , Beats ® products, HomePod™, iPod touch ® and other Apple-branded and third-party accessories. AirPods are the Company’ wireless headphones that interact with Siri. October , the Company introduced AirPods Pro™. Apple Watch personal electronic device that combines the watchOS ® user interface and other technologies created specifically for smaller device. September , the Company introduced Apple Watch Series . Services Digital Content Stores and Streaming Services The Company operates various platforms that allow customers discover and download applications and digital content, such books, music, video, games and podcasts. These platforms include the App Store ® , available for iPhone and iPad, the Mac App Store, the App Store and the Watch App Store. The Company also offers subscription-based digital content streaming services, including Apple Music ® , which offers users curated listening experience with -demand radio stations, and Apple +, which offers exclusive original content, and expected available November . Apple Inc. | Form - | AppleCare AppleCare ® includes AppleCare + (“ +”) and the AppleCare Protection Plan, which are fee-based services that extend the coverage phone support eligibility and hardware repairs. + offers additional coverage for instances accidental damage and available certain countries for certain products. Additionally, + with theft and loss protection available for iPhone the . iCloud iCloud ® the Company’ cloud service, which stores music, photos, contacts, calendars, mail, documents and more, keeping them - -date and available across multiple Apple devices and Windows personal computers. Licensing The Company licenses the use certain its intellectual property, and provides other related services. Other Services The Company delivers variety other services available certain countries, including Apple Arcade™, game subscription service; Apple Card™, -branded credit card; Apple News+, subscription news and magazine service; and Apple Pay, cashless payment service. Markets and Distribution The Company’ customers are primarily the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs variety indirect distribution channels, such third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. During , the Company’ net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for % and %, respectively, total net sales. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , and . Competition The markets for the Company’ products and services are highly competitive and the Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. These markets are characterized frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances that have substantially increased the capabilities and use smartphones, personal computers, tablets and other electronic devices. Many the Company’ competitors that sell mobile devices and personal computers based other operating systems seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. Principal competitive factors important the Company include price, product and service features (including security features), relative price and performance, product and service quality and reliability, design innovation, strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. The Company focused expanding its market opportunities related smartphones, personal computers, tablets and other electronic devices. These markets are highly competitive and include many large, well-funded and experienced participants. The Company expects competition these markets intensify significantly competitors imitate features the Company’ products and applications within their products, collaborate offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. These markets are characterized aggressive price competition, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption technological advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. The Company’ services also face substantial competition, including from companies that have significant resources and experience and have established service offerings with large customer bases. The Company competes with business models that provide content users for free. The Company also competes with illegitimate means obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company believes offers superior innovation and integration the entire solution, including hardware, software and services. Some the Company’ current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may able provide such products and services little profit, even loss, compete with the Company’ offerings. Apple Inc. | Form - | Supply Components Although most components essential the Company’ business are generally available from multiple sources, certain components are currently obtained from single limited sources. The Company also competes for various components with other participants the markets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets and other electronic devices. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components; however, there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Substantially all the Company’ hardware products are manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured the . and Ireland. Research and Development Because the industries which the Company competes are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company’ ability compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability ensure continual and timely flow competitive products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company continues develop new technologies enhance existing products and services, and expand the range its offerings through research and development (“ & ”), licensing intellectual property and acquisition third-party businesses and technology. Intellectual Property The Company currently holds broad collection intellectual property rights relating certain aspects its hardware devices, accessories, software and services. This includes patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other forms intellectual property rights the . and various foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership such intellectual property rights important factor its business and that its success does depend part such ownership, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities its personnel. The Company regularly files patent applications protect innovations arising from its research, development and design, and currently pursuing thousands patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated large portfolio issued patents, including utility patents, design patents and others. The Company also holds copyrights relating certain aspects its products and services. single intellectual property right solely responsible for protecting the Company’ products. The Company believes the duration its intellectual property rights adequate relative the expected lives its products. addition Company-owned intellectual property, many the Company’ products and services are designed include intellectual property owned third parties. may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects the Company’ products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able obtain such licenses commercially reasonable terms the past, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained the future reasonable terms all. Business Seasonality and Product Introductions The Company has historically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters its fiscal year due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost sales and operating expenses. The timing product introductions can also impact the Company’ net sales its indirect distribution channels these channels are filled with new inventory following product launch, and channel inventory older product often declines the launch newer product approaches. Net sales can also affected when consumers and distributors anticipate product introduction. Employees September , , the Company had approximately , full-time equivalent employees. Apple Inc. | Form - | Available Information The Company’ Annual Reports Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the “Exchange Act”), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Company subject the informational requirements the Exchange Act and files furnishes reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available free charge investor apple com investor-relations sec-filings default aspx when such reports are available the SEC’ website. The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC www sec gov. The Company periodically provides other information for investors its corporate website, www apple com, and its investor relations website, investor apple com. This includes press releases and other information about financial performance, information corporate governance and details related the Company’ annual meeting shareholders. The information contained the websites referenced this Form - not incorporated reference into this filing. Further, the Company’ references website URLs are intended inactive textual references only. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors The following discussion risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may important understanding other statements this Form - . The following information should read conjunction with Part , Item , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes Part , Item , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” this Form - . The business, financial condition and operating results the Company can affected number factors, whether currently known unknown, including but not limited those described below, any one more which could, directly indirectly, cause the Company’ actual financial condition and operating results vary materially from past, from anticipated future, financial condition and operating results. Any these factors, whole part, could materially and adversely affect the Company’ business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company’ financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations, financial condition and growth . The Company has international operations with sales outside the . representing majority the Company’ total net sales. addition, majority the Company’ supply chain, and its manufacturing and assembly activities, are located outside the . result, the Company’ operations and performance depend significantly global and regional economic conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, slower growth recession, new increased tariffs, changes fiscal and monetary policy, tighter credit, higher interest rates, high unemployment and currency fluctuations could materially adversely affect demand for the Company’ products and services. addition, consumer confidence and spending could adversely affected response financial market volatility, negative financial news, conditions the real estate and mortgage markets, declines income asset values, changes fuel and other energy costs, labor and healthcare costs and other economic factors. addition adverse impact demand for the Company’ products, uncertainty about, decline , global regional economic conditions could have significant impact the Company’ suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners. Potential effects include financial instability; inability obtain credit finance operations and purchases the Company’ products; and insolvency. downturn the economic environment could also lead increased credit and collectibility risk the Company’ trade receivables; the failure derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; limitations the Company’ ability issue new debt; reduced liquidity; and declines the fair value the Company’ financial instruments. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations, financial condition and growth. Global markets for the Company’ products and services are highly competitive and subject rapid technological change, and the Company may unable compete effectively these markets. The Company’ products and services are offered highly competitive global markets characterized aggressive price competition and resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. The Company’ ability compete successfully depends heavily its ability ensure continuing and timely introduction innovative new products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company believes unique that designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. result, the Company must make significant investments & . There can assurance that these investments will achieve expected returns, and the Company may not able develop and market new products and services successfully. The Company currently holds significant number patents, trademarks and copyrights and has registered, and applied register, numerous patents, trademarks and copyrights. contrast, many the Company’ competitors seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and emulating the Company’ products and infringing its intellectual property. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins competitors infringe the Company’ intellectual property, the Company’ ability maintain competitive advantage could adversely affected. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company has minority market share the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets. The Company faces substantial competition these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, well established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships. addition, some the Company’ competitors have broader product lines, lower-priced products and larger installed base active devices. Competition has been particularly intense competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. Certain competitors may have the resources, experience cost structures provide products little profit even loss. Additionally, the Company faces significant competition competitors imitate the Company’ product features and applications within their products collaborate offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company also expects competition intensify competitors imitate the Company’ approach providing components seamlessly within their offerings work collaboratively offer integrated solutions. Some the markets which the Company competes have from time time experienced little growth contracted. addition, increasing number Internet-enabled devices that include software applications and are smaller, simpler and cheaper than traditional personal computers compete with some the Company’ existing products. The Company’ services also face substantial competition, including from companies that have significant resources and experience and have established service offerings with large customer bases. The Company competes with business models that provide content users for free. The Company also competes with illegitimate means obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company’ financial condition and operating results depend substantially the Company’ ability continually improve its products and services maintain their functional and design advantages. There can assurance the Company will able continue provide products and services that compete effectively. remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent introductions and transitions products and services. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the industries which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services, and successfully manage the transition these new and upgraded products and services. The success new product and service introductions depends number factors including, but not limited , timely and successful development, market acceptance, the Company’ ability manage the risks associated with new product production ramp- issues, the availability application software for new products, the effective management purchase commitments and inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities and expected costs meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products and services may have quality other defects deficiencies. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect new product and service introductions and transitions. The Company depends the performance carriers, wholesalers, retailers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. Some carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone offer financing, installment payment plans subsidies for users’ purchases the device. There assurance that such offers will continued all the same amounts upon renewal the Company’ agreements with these carriers agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. The Company has invested and will continue invest programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers’ stores with Company employees and contractors, and improving product placement displays. These programs can require substantial investment while not assuring return incremental sales. The financial condition these resellers could weaken, these resellers could stop distributing the Company’ products, uncertainty regarding demand for some all the Company’ products could cause resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company’ products. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company exposed the risk write-downs the value its inventory and other assets, addition purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete exceed anticipated demand, for which cost exceeds net realizable value. The Company also accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders excess products and components. The Company reviews long-lived assets, including capital assets held its suppliers’ facilities and inventory prepayments, for impairment whenever events circumstances indicate the assets may not recoverable. the Company determines that impairment has occurred, records write-down equal the amount which the carrying value the asset exceeds its fair value. Although the Company believes its inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets and purchase commitments are currently recoverable, assurance can given that the Company will not incur write-downs, fees, impairments and other charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the industries which the Company competes. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product announcements and shipments. Manufacturing purchase obligations cover the Company’ forecasted component and manufacturing requirements, typically for periods days . Because the Company’ markets are volatile, competitive and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order produce excess insufficient amounts components products, not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. Future operating results depend upon the Company’ ability obtain components sufficient quantities commercially reasonable terms. Because the Company currently obtains certain components from single limited sources, the Company subject significant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations that could materially adversely affect the Company’ financial condition and operating results. While the Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components, there can assurance that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Component suppliers may suffer from poor financial conditions, which can lead business failure for the supplier consolidation within particular industry, further limiting the Company’ ability obtain sufficient quantities components commercially reasonable terms. The effects global regional economic conditions the Company’ suppliers, described “ Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations, financial condition and growth ,” above, also could affect the Company’ ability obtain components . Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company’ new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, can affected for any number reasons, including suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. the Company’ supply components for new existing product were delayed constrained, outsourcing partner delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company’ financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company’ business and financial performance could also materially adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. The Company depends component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided outsourcing partners, many which are located outside the . Substantially all the Company’ manufacturing performed whole part outsourcing partners located primarily Asia. significant concentration this manufacturing currently performed small number outsourcing partners, often single locations. The Company has also outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements can lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company’ direct control over production and distribution. Such diminished control may have adverse effect the quality quantity products services, the Company’ flexibility respond changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for product defect expense reimbursement, the Company generally remains responsible the consumer for warranty and out- -warranty service the event product defects and could experience unanticipated product defect liability. While the Company relies its partners adhere its supplier code conduct, material violations the supplier code conduct could occur. The Company relies single-source outsourcing partners the ., Asia and Europe supply and manufacture many components, and outsourcing partners primarily located Asia, for final assembly substantially all the Company’ hardware products. Any failure these partners perform can have negative impact the Company’ cost supply components finished goods. addition, manufacturing logistics these locations transit final destinations can disrupted for variety reasons including, but not limited , natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, commercial disputes, military actions, economic, business, labor, environmental, public health political issues, international trade disputes. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company has invested manufacturing process equipment, much which held certain its outsourcing partners, and has made prepayments certain its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements. While these arrangements help ensure the supply components and finished goods, these outsourcing partners suppliers experience severe financial problems other disruptions their business, such continued supply can reduced terminated and the recoverability manufacturing process equipment prepayments can negatively impacted. The Company’ products and services may affected from time time design and manufacturing defects that could materially adversely affect the Company’ business and result harm the Company’ reputation. The Company offers complex hardware and software products and services that can affected design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those offered the Company, often have issues that can unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation hardware software products. Defects can also exist components and products the Company purchases from third parties. Component defects could make the Company’ products unsafe and create risk environmental property damage and personal injury. These risks may increase the Company’ products are introduced into specialized applications, including healthcare. addition, the Company’ service offerings may have quality issues and from time time experience outages, service slowdowns errors. result, the Company’ services may not perform anticipated and may not meet customer expectations. There can assurance the Company will able detect and fix all issues and defects the hardware, software and services offers. Failure could result widespread technical and performance issues affecting the Company’ products and services. addition, the Company can exposed product liability claims, recalls, product replacements modifications, write-offs inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, and significant warranty and other expenses, including litigation costs and regulatory fines. Quality problems can also adversely affect the experience for users the Company’ products and services, and result harm the Company’ reputation, loss competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, delay new product and service introductions and lost sales. The Company relies access third-party digital content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with numerous third parties offer their digital content customers. This includes the right sell currently available content. The licensing other distribution arrangements with these third parties are for relatively short terms and not guarantee the continuation renewal these arrangements commercially reasonable terms, all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently the future may offer competing products and services, and can take actions make more difficult impossible for the Company license otherwise distribute their content the future. Other content owners, providers distributors may seek limit the Company’ access , increase the cost , such content. The Company may unable continue offer wide variety content commercially reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach. Failure obtain the right make third-party digital content available, make such content available commercially reasonable terms, could have material adverse impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Some third-party digital content providers require the Company provide digital rights management and other security solutions. requirements change, the Company may have develop license new technology provide these solutions. There assurance the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner. addition, certain countries have passed may propose and adopt legislation that would force the Company license its digital rights management, which could lessen the protection content and subject piracy and also could negatively affect arrangements with the Company’ content providers. The Company’ future performance depends part support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions customers purchase its hardware products depend part the availability third-party software applications and services. There assurance that third-party developers will continue develop and maintain software applications and services for the Company’ products. third-party software applications and services cease developed and maintained for the Company’ products, customers may choose not buy the Company’ products. The Company believes the availability third-party software applications and services for its products depends part the developers’ perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining and upgrading such software and services for the Company’ products compared competitors’ platforms, such Android for smartphones and tablets and Windows for personal computers. This analysis may based factors such the market position the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may generated, expected future growth product sales, and the costs developing such applications and services. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ minority market share the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets could make developers less inclined develop upgrade software for the Company’ products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for competitors’ products with larger market share. developers focus their efforts these competing platforms, the availability and quality applications for the Company’ devices may suffer. The Company relies the continued availability and development compelling and innovative software applications for its products. The Company’ products and operating systems are subject rapid technological change, and third-party developers are unable choose not keep with this pace change, third-party applications might not take advantage these changes deliver improved customer experiences might not operate correctly and may result dissatisfied customers. The Company sells and delivers third-party applications for its products through the App Store, Mac App Store, App Store and Watch App Store. The Company retains commission from sales through these platforms. developers reduce their use these platforms distribute their applications and offer -app purchases customers, then the volume sales, and the commission that the Company earns those sales, would decrease. The Company relies access third-party intellectual property, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. Many the Company’ products and services are designed include intellectual property owned third parties, which requires licenses from those third parties. addition, because technological changes the industries which the Company currently competes the future may compete, current extensive patent coverage and the rapid rate issuance new patents, the Company’ products and services may unknowingly infringe existing patents intellectual property rights others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third parties. Based experience and industry practice, the Company believes licenses such third-party intellectual property can generally obtained commercially reasonable terms. There , however, assurance that the necessary licenses can obtained commercially reasonable terms all. Failure obtain the right use third-party intellectual property, use such intellectual property commercially reasonable terms, could preclude the Company from selling certain products services, otherwise have material adverse impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. The Company could impacted unfavorable results legal proceedings, such being found have infringed intellectual property rights . The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not yet been fully resolved, and new claims may arise the future. addition, agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions which can subject the Company costs and damages the event claim against indemnified third party. Claims against the Company based allegations patent infringement other violations intellectual property rights have generally increased over time and may continue increase. particular, the Company has historically faced significant number patent claims relating its cellular-enabled products, and new claims may arise the future. For example, technology and other patent-holding companies frequently assert their patents and seek royalties and often enter into litigation based allegations patent infringement other violations intellectual property rights. The Company vigorously defending infringement actions courts several . jurisdictions, well internationally various countries. The plaintiffs these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless the merit particular claims, litigation can expensive, time-consuming, disruptive the Company’ operations and distracting management. recognition these considerations, the Company may enter into licensing agreements other arrangements settle litigation and resolve such disputes. assurance can given that such agreements can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. These agreements may also significantly increase the Company’ cost sales and operating expenses. Except described Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Commitments and Contingencies” under the heading “Contingencies,” the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss greater than recorded accrual, concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims, including matters related infringement intellectual property rights. The outcome litigation inherently uncertain. one more legal matters were resolved against the Company indemnified third party reporting period for amounts above management’ expectations, the Company’ financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Further, such outcome could result significant compensatory, punitive trebled monetary damages, disgorgement revenue profits, remedial corporate measures injunctive relief against the Company that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types claims, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses all types claims that may arise. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company subject complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide, which exposes the Company potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects the Company’ business. The Company’ global operations are subject complex and changing laws and regulations subjects including, but not limited : antitrust; privacy, data security and data localization; consumer protection; advertising, sales, billing and -commerce; product liability; intellectual property ownership and infringement; digital platforms; Internet, telecommunications, and mobile communications; media, television, film and digital content; availability third-party software applications and services; labor and employment; anti-corruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; anti–money laundering; foreign ownership and investment; tax; and environmental, health and safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations may onerous and expensive, increasing the cost conducting the Company’ global operations. Changes laws and regulations can adversely affect the Company’ business increasing the Company’ costs, limiting the Company’ ability offer product service customers, requiring changes the Company’ business practices otherwise making the Company’ products and services less attractive customers. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can assurance that the Company’ employees, contractors agents will not violate such laws and regulations the Company’ policies and procedures. the Company found have violated laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect the Company’ reputation, financial condition and operating results. The technology industry, including, some instances, the Company, subject intense media, political and regulatory scrutiny, which exposes the Company government investigations, legal actions and penalties. For example, the Company subject antitrust investigations various jurisdictions around the world, which can result legal proceedings and claims against the Company that could, individually the aggregate, have material impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. There can assurance that the Company’ business will not materially adversely affected, individually the aggregate, the outcomes such investigations changes laws and regulations the future. The Company’ retail stores have required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and are subject numerous risks and uncertainties. The Company’ retail stores have required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company’ more typical retail stores. Due the high cost structure associated with the Company’ retail stores, decline sales the closure poor performance individual store multiple stores could result significant lease termination costs, write-offs equipment and leasehold improvements and severance costs. The Company’ retail operations are subject many factors that pose risks and uncertainties and could adversely impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results, including macro-economic factors that could have adverse effect general retail activity. Other factors include, but are not limited , the Company’ ability : manage costs associated with retail store construction and operation; manage relationships with existing retail partners; manage costs associated with fluctuations the value retail inventory; and obtain and renew leases quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the Company’ ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and the future may invest, new business strategies acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management from current operations, greater-than-expected liabilities and expenses, inadequate return capital, and unidentified issues not discovered the Company’ due diligence. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not successful. The Company’ business and reputation may impacted information technology system failures network disruptions. The Company exposed information technology system failures network disruptions caused natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts terrorism war, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, other events disruptions. System redundancy and other continuity measures may ineffective inadequate, and the Company’ business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures disruptions can adversely impact the Company’ business , among other things, preventing access the Company’ online services, interfering with customer transactions impeding the manufacturing and shipping the Company’ products. These events could materially adversely affect the Company’ reputation, financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | Form - | There may losses unauthorized access releases confidential information, including personally identifiable information, that could subject the Company significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences. The Company’ business requires use and store confidential information including, among other things, personally identifiable information (“PII”) with respect the Company’ customers and employees. The Company devotes significant resources network and data security, including through the use encryption and other security measures intended protect its systems and data. But these measures cannot provide absolute security, and losses unauthorized access releases confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’ reputation, financial condition and operating results. The Company’ business also requires share confidential information with suppliers and other third parties. Although the Company takes steps secure confidential information that provided third parties, such measures are not always effective and losses unauthorized access releases confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’ reputation, financial condition and operating results. For example, the Company may experience security breach impacting the Company’ information technology systems that compromises the confidentiality, integrity availability confidential information. Such incident could, among other things, impair the Company’ ability attract and retain customers for its products and services, impact the Company’ stock price, materially damage supplier relationships, and expose the Company litigation government investigations, which could result penalties, fines judgments against the Company. Although malicious attacks perpetrated gain access confidential information, including PII, affect many companies across various industries, the Company relatively greater risk being targeted because its high profile and the value the confidential information creates, owns, manages, stores and processes. The Company has implemented systems and processes intended secure its information technology systems and prevent unauthorized access loss sensitive data, including through the use encryption and authentication technologies. with all companies, these security measures may not sufficient for all eventualities and may vulnerable hacking, employee error, malfeasance, system error, faulty password management other irregularities. For example, third parties fraudulently induce employees customers into disclosing user names, passwords other sensitive information, which may, turn, used access the Company’ information technology systems. help protect customers and the Company, the Company monitors its services and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which, among other things, may result the delay loss customer orders impede customer access the Company’ products and services. addition the risks relating general confidential information described above, the Company also subject specific obligations relating health data and payment card data. Health data subject additional privacy, security and breach notification requirements, and the Company can subject audit governmental authorities regarding the Company’ compliance with these obligations. the Company fails adequately comply with these rules and requirements, health data handled manner not permitted law under the Company’ agreements with healthcare institutions, the Company could subject litigation government investigations, may liable for associated investigatory expenses, and could also incur significant fees fines. Under payment card rules and obligations, cardholder information potentially compromised, the Company could liable for associated investigatory expenses and could also incur significant fees fines the Company fails follow payment card industry data security standards. The Company could also experience significant increase payment card transaction costs lose the ability process payment cards fails follow payment card industry data security standards, which would materially adversely affect the Company’ reputation, financial condition and operating results. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that intended address certain aspects data security risks, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses all types claims that may arise. The Company’ business subject variety . and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company subject federal, state and international laws relating the collection, use, retention, security and transfer PII. many cases, these laws apply not only third-party transactions, but also may restrict transfers PII among the Company and its international subsidiaries. Several jurisdictions have passed laws this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue develop and may inconsistent from jurisdiction jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause the Company incur substantial costs require the Company change its business practices. Noncompliance could result significant penalties legal liability. The Company makes statements about its use and disclosure PII through its privacy policy, information provided its website and press statements. Any failure the Company comply with these public statements with other federal, state international privacy-related data protection laws and regulations could result proceedings against the Company governmental entities others. addition reputational impacts, penalties could include ongoing audit requirements and significant legal liability. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ success depends largely the continued service and availability key personnel. Much the Company’ future success depends the continued availability and service key personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel the technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially Silicon Valley, where most the Company’ key personnel are located. The Company’ business can impacted political events, international trade disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions. Political events, international trade disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions could harm disrupt international commerce and the global economy, and could have material adverse effect the Company and its customers, suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners. International trade disputes can result tariffs and other measures that can adversely affect the Company’ business. For example, trade tensions have led series tariffs imposed the . imports from China. Tariffs increase the cost the Company’ products and the components and raw materials that into making them. These increased costs adversely impact the gross margin that the Company earns its products. Tariffs can also make the Company’ products more expensive for customers, which could make the Company’ products less competitive and reduce consumer demand. Countries may also adopt other measures that could limit the Company’ ability offer its products and services. Political uncertainty surrounding international trade disputes and measures could also have negative effect consumer confidence and spending, which could adversely affect the Company’ business. Many the Company’ operations and facilities, well critical business operations the Company’ suppliers and contract manufacturers, are locations that are prone earthquakes and other natural disasters. addition, such operations and facilities are subject the risk interruption fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond the Company’ control. Global climate change could result certain types natural disasters occurring more frequently with more intense effects. Such events could make difficult impossible for the Company manufacture and deliver products its customers, create delays and inefficiencies the Company’ supply and manufacturing chain, and result slowdowns and outages the Company’ service offerings. Following interruption its business, the Company could require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures resume operations, and lose significant sales. Because the Company relies single limited sources for the supply and manufacture many critical components, business interruption affecting such sources would exacerbate any negative consequences the Company. The Company’ operations are also subject the risks industrial accidents its suppliers and contract manufacturers. While the Company’ suppliers are required maintain safe working environments and operations, industrial accident could occur and could result disruption the Company’ business and harm the Company’ reputation. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could adversely affected more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company’ suppliers and contract manufacturers. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types losses, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses that may arise. The Company expects its quarterly net sales and operating results fluctuate. The Company’ profit margins vary across its products, services, geographic segments and distribution channels. For example, gross margins the Company’ hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time. The Company’ gross margins are subject volatility and downward pressure due variety factors, including: continued industry-wide global product pricing pressures and product pricing actions that the Company may take response such pressures; increased competition; the Company’ ability effectively stimulate demand for certain its products and services; compressed product life cycles; potential increases the cost components, outside manufacturing services, and acquiring and delivering content for the Company’ services; the Company’ ability manage product quality and warranty costs effectively; shifts the mix products and services, the geographic, currency channel mix; fluctuations foreign exchange rates; and the introduction new products services, including new products services with higher cost structures. These and other factors could have materially adverse impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company has historically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters its fiscal year due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost sales and operating expenses. Further, the Company generates significant portion its net sales from single product and decline demand for that product could significantly impact quarterly net sales. The Company could also subject unexpected developments, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’ products services, issues with new product service introductions, information technology system failures network disruptions, failure one the Company’ logistics, components supply, manufacturing partners. The Company’ stock price subject volatility. The Company’ stock price has experienced substantial price volatility the past and may continue the future. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock market whole have experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices ways that may have been unrelated these companies’ operating performance. Price volatility over given period may cause the average price which the Company repurchases its stock exceed the stock’ price given point time. The Company believes its stock price should reflect expectations future growth and profitability. The Company also believes its stock price should reflect expectations that its cash dividend will continue current levels grow, and that its current share repurchase program will fully consummated. Future dividends are subject declaration the Company’ Board Directors, and the Company’ share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. the Company fails meet expectations related future growth, profitability, dividends, share repurchases other market expectations, its stock price may decline significantly, which could have material adverse impact investor confidence and employee retention. The Company’ financial performance subject risks associated with changes the value the . dollar relative local currencies. The Company’ primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relates non– . dollar–denominated sales, cost sales and operating expenses worldwide. Gross margins the Company’ products foreign countries and products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers could materially adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The weakening foreign currencies relative the . dollar adversely affects the . dollar value the Company’ foreign currency–denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company’ products. some circumstances, for competitive other reasons, the Company may decide not raise international pricing offset the . dollar’ strengthening, which would adversely affect the . dollar value the gross margins the Company earns foreign currency–denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening foreign currencies relative the . dollar, while generally beneficial the Company’ foreign currency–denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company reduce international pricing and incur losses its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening foreign currencies may increase the Company’ cost product components denominated those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company uses derivative instruments, such foreign currency forward and option contracts, hedge certain exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not effective offset any, more than portion, the adverse financial effects unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are place. The Company exposed credit risk and fluctuations the values its investment portfolio. The Company’ investments can negatively affected liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, market and economic conditions, political risk, sovereign risk, interest rate fluctuations other factors. result, the value and liquidity the Company’ cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although the Company has not realized any significant losses its cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable securities, future fluctuations their value could result significant losses and could have material adverse impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company exposed credit risk its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements, and this risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. The Company also sells its products directly small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. substantial majority the Company’ outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral, third-party bank support financing arrangements, credit insurance. The Company’ exposure credit and collectibility risk its trade receivables higher certain international markets and its ability mitigate such risks may limited. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases components outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply inventory components. September , , significant portion the Company’ trade receivables was concentrated within cellular network carriers, and its vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements were concentrated among few individual vendors located primarily Asia. While the Company has procedures monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, well long-term prepayments, there can assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company could subject changes its tax rates, the adoption new . international tax legislation exposure additional tax liabilities. The Company subject taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where number the Company’ subsidiaries are organized. Due economic and political conditions, tax rates various jurisdictions may subject significant change. The Company’ effective tax rates could affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation, including the . and Ireland. The Company also subject the examination its tax returns and other tax matters the . Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcome resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for taxes. There can assurance the outcome these examinations. the Company’ effective tax rates were increase, particularly the . Ireland, the ultimate determination the Company’ taxes owed for amount excess amounts previously accrued, the Company’ financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company’ headquarters are located Cupertino, California. September , , the Company owned leased facilities and land for corporate functions, & , data centers, retail and other purposes locations throughout the . and various places outside the . The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment, which are used all reportable segments, are good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct its business. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The Company subject legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary course business. Except described Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Commitments and Contingencies” under the heading “Contingencies,” the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss greater than recorded accrual, concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. The outcome litigation inherently uncertain. one more legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts above management’ expectations, the Company’ financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Refer the risk factor “ The Company could impacted unfavorable results legal proceedings, such being found have infringed intellectual property rights ” Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Risk Factors.” The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company’ financial condition operating results. ', 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant’ Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The Company’ common stock traded The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbol AAPL. Holders October , , there were , shareholders record. Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September , was follows ( millions, except number shares, which are reflected thousands, and per share amounts): Periods Total Number Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Plans Programs Approximate Dollar Value Shares That May Yet Purchased Under the Plans Programs ( ) June , August , : Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , August , August , : February ASR , ( ) , Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , September , September , : Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , Total , $ , ( ) April , , the Company announced the Board Directors increased the current share repurchase program authorization from $ billion $ billion the Company’ common stock, which $ billion had been utilized September , . The remaining $ billion the table represents the amount available repurchase shares under the authorized repurchase program September , . The Company’ share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under this program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Exchange Act. ( ) February , the Company entered into accelerated share repurchase arrangement (“ASR”) purchase $ billion the Company’ common stock. August , the purchase period for this ASR ended and additional million shares were delivered and retired. total, million shares were delivered under this ASR average repurchase price $ . Apple Inc. | Form - | Company Stock Performance The following graph shows comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend-reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Index, the & Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index for the five years ended September , . The graph assumes $ was invested each the Company’ common stock, the & Index, the & Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index the market close September , . Note that historic stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. * $ invested September , stock index, including reinvestment dividends. Data points are the last day each fiscal year for the Company’ common stock and September 30th for indexes. Copyright © Standard & Poor’ , division & Global. All rights reserved. Copyright © & Dow Jones Indices LLC, division & Global. All rights reserved. September September September September September September Apple Inc. $ $ $ $ $ $ & Index $ $ $ $ $ $ & Information Technology Index $ $ $ $ $ $ Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index $ $ $ $ $ $ Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth below for the five years ended September , , not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Part , Item , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto included Part , Item this Form - fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below ( millions, except number shares, which are reflected thousands, and per share amounts). Total net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , , , , , Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Non-current portion term debt $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 7. ': 'Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Annual Report Form - (“Form - ”) contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act , that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations future events based certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate any historical current fact. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “predicts,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may,” and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company’ actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Risk Factors,” which are incorporated herein reference. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included Part , Item this Form - . Unless otherwise stated, all information presented herein based the Company’ fiscal calendar, and references particular years, quarters, months periods refer the Company’ fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters, months and periods those fiscal years. Each the terms the “Company” and “Apple” used herein refers collectively Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. This section this Form - generally discusses and items and year- -year comparisons between and . Discussions items and year- -year comparisons between and that are not included this Form - can found “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations” Part , Item the Company’ Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , . Fiscal Period The Company’ fiscal year the - -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company’ fiscal years and spanned weeks each, whereas fiscal year included weeks. 14th week was included the first quarter , done every five six years, realign the Company’ fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal Highlights Total net sales decreased % $ billion during compared , driven lower net sales iPhone, partially offset higher net sales Wearables, Home and Accessories and Services all geographic operating segments. The weakness foreign currencies had significant unfavorable impact net sales during . April , the Company announced increase its current share repurchase program authorization from $ billion $ billion and raised its quarterly dividend from $ $ per share beginning May . During , the Company repurchased $ billion its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion . Apple Inc. | Form - | Products and Services Performance Beginning the first quarter , the Company classified the amortization the deferred value Maps, Siri and free iCloud services, which are bundled the sales price iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products, Services net sales. Historically, the Company classified the amortization these amounts Products net sales consistent with its management reporting framework. result, Products and Services net sales for and were reclassified conform the presentation. The following table shows net sales category for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales category: iPhone ( ) $ , ( )% $ , % $ , Mac ( ) , % , ( )% , iPad ( ) , % , ( )% , Wearables, Home and Accessories ( )( ) , % , % , Services ( ) , % , % , Total net sales $ , ( )% $ , % $ , ( ) Products net sales include amortization the deferred value unspecified software upgrade rights, which are bundled the sales price the respective product. ( ) Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales include sales AirPods, Apple , Apple Watch, Beats products, HomePod, iPod touch and Apple-branded and third-party accessories. ( ) Services net sales include sales from the Company’ digital content stores and streaming services, AppleCare, licensing and other services. Services net sales also include amortization the deferred value Maps, Siri and free iCloud services, which are bundled the sales price certain products. iPhone iPhone net sales decreased during compared due primarily lower iPhone unit sales. Mac Mac net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales MacBook Air, partially offset lower net sales MacBook ® and MacBook Pro ® . iPad iPad net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPad Pro. Wearables, Home and Accessories Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales AirPods and Apple Watch. Services Services net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales from the App Store, licensing and AppleCare. Apple Inc. | Form - | Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company’ reportable segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company’ other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one managed separately better align with the location the Company’ customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. Further information regarding the Company’ reportable segments can found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Segment Information and Geographic Data.” The following table shows net sales reportable segment for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales reportable segment: Americas $ , % $ , % $ , Europe , ( )% , % , Greater China , ( )% , % , Japan , ( )% , % , Rest Asia Pacific , % , % , Total net sales $ , ( )% $ , % $ , Americas Americas net sales increased during compared due primarily higher Services and Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales, partially offset lower iPhone net sales. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had unfavorable impact Americas net sales during . Europe Europe net sales decreased during compared due lower iPhone net sales, partially offset higher Wearables, Home and Accessories and Services net sales. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had significant unfavorable impact Europe net sales during . Greater China Greater China net sales decreased during compared due primarily lower iPhone net sales, partially offset higher Wearables, Home and Accessories and Services net sales. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had unfavorable impact Greater China net sales during . Japan Japan net sales decreased during compared due lower iPhone net sales, partially offset higher Services and Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales. The value the Japanese Yen relative the . dollar had favorable impact Japan net sales during . Rest Asia Pacific Rest Asia Pacific net sales increased during compared due primarily higher Wearables, Home and Accessories and Services net sales, partially offset lower iPhone net sales. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had significant unfavorable impact Rest Asia Pacific net sales during . Apple Inc. | Form - | Gross Margin Products and Services gross margin and gross margin percentage for , and were follows (dollars millions): Gross margin: Products $ , $ , $ , Services , , , Total gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage: Products % % % Services % % % Total gross margin percentage % % % Products Gross Margin Products gross margin and Products gross margin percentage decreased during compared due primarily lower iPhone unit sales and the weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar. Products gross margin increased during compared due primarily favorable shift mix iPhones and the strength foreign currencies relative the . dollar, partially offset higher product cost structures. Year-over-year Products gross margin percentage decreased during due primarily higher product cost structures, partially offset the strength foreign currencies relative the . dollar. Services Gross Margin Year-over-year Services gross margin increased during and due primarily higher Services net sales and different services mix. Year-over-year Services gross margin percentage increased during and due primarily different services mix and leverage the Company’ services fixed cost structure from higher Services net sales. The Company’ future gross margins can impacted variety factors, set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Risk Factors”. result, the Company believes, general, gross margins will subject volatility and remain under downward pressure. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for , and were follows (dollars millions): Change Change Research and development $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Total operating expenses $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Research and Development The year-over-year growth & expense was driven primarily increases headcount-related expenses. The Company continues believe that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace, and the development new and updated products and services that are central the Company’ core business strategy. Selling, General and Administrative The year-over-year growth selling, general and administrative expense was driven primarily increases headcount-related expenses and higher spending marketing and advertising and infrastructure-related costs. Apple Inc. | Form - | Other Income/(Expense), Net Other income/(expense), net (“ & ”) for , and was follows (dollars millions): Change Change Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income/(expense), net ( ) ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ , ( )% $ , ( )% $ , The year-over-year decrease & during was due primarily lower interest income and higher interest expense, partially offset the impact foreign exchange–related items. The weighted-average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was % and % and , respectively. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes, effective tax rate and statutory federal income tax rate for , and were follows (dollars millions): Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % Statutory federal income tax rate % % % December , , the . enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”), which significantly changed . tax law. The Act lowered the Company’ . statutory federal income tax rate from % % effective January , , while also imposing deemed repatriation tax previously deferred foreign income. operation law, the Company applied blended . statutory federal income tax rate % for (the “ blended . tax rate”). The Act also created new minimum tax certain foreign earnings. The Company’ effective tax rate for was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily the lower tax rate foreign earnings and tax benefits from share-based compensation. The Company’ effective tax rate for was lower than the blended . tax rate due primarily the lower tax rate foreign earnings, partially offset the remeasurement deferred tax assets and liabilities result the Act. The Company’ effective tax rate for was lower compared due primarily lower statutory federal income tax rate and the impact the Act , partially offset higher taxes foreign earnings . September , , the Company had net deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences and tax credits $ billion and deferred tax liabilities $ billion . Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient recover the net deferred tax assets. The Company will continue evaluate the amount the valuation allowance, any, assessing the realizability deferred tax assets. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Hedging August , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) . - , Derivatives and Hedging (Topic ): Targeted Improvements Accounting for Hedging Activities (“ASU - ”). ASU - expands component and fair value hedging, specifies the presentation the effects hedging instruments, and eliminates the separate measurement and presentation hedge ineffectiveness. The Company will adopt ASU - its first quarter utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Based the Company’ derivative portfolio and hedging strategies, the adoption ASU - not expected have material impact its consolidated financial statements. Financial Instruments June , the FASB issued ASU . - , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic ): Measurement Credit Losses Financial Instruments (“ASU - ”), which modifies the measurement expected credit losses certain financial instruments. The Company will adopt ASU - its first quarter utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Based the composition the Company’ investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption ASU - not expected have material impact its consolidated financial statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Leases February , the FASB issued ASU . - , Leases (Topic ) (“ASU - ”), which modifies lease accounting for lessees increase transparency and comparability recording lease assets and liabilities for operating leases and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The Company will adopt ASU - utilizing the modified retrospective transition method through cumulative-effect adjustment the beginning its first quarter . Upon adoption, the Company anticipates recording lease-related assets and liabilities approximately $ billion its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, with material impact its Condensed Consolidated Statements Operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics and for the years ended September , , September , and September , ( millions): Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities ( ) $ , $ , $ , Property, plant and equipment, net $ , $ , $ , Commercial paper $ , $ , $ , Total term debt $ , $ , $ , Working capital $ , $ , $ , Cash generated operating activities $ , $ , $ , Cash generated /(used ) investing activities $ , $ , $ ( , ) Cash used financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) September , and September , , total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $ billion and $ billion , respectively, that was restricted from general use, related the State Aid Decision (refer Note , “Income Taxes” the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Part , Item this Form - ) and other agreements. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, along with commercial paper and other short-term liquidity arrangements, will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, dividends, share repurchases, debt repayments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. connection with the State Aid Decision, September , , the entire adjusted recovery amount € billion plus interest € billion was funded into escrow, where will remain restricted from general use pending the conclusion all appeals. Further information regarding the State Aid Decision can found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Income Taxes.” The Company’ marketable securities investment portfolio primarily invested highly rated securities, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. The Company’ investment policy generally requires securities investment grade and limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. During , cash generated operating activities $ billion was result $ billion net income and non-cash adjustments net income $ billion , partially offset decrease the net change operating assets and liabilities $ billion . Cash generated investing activities $ billion during consisted primarily proceeds from sales and maturities marketable securities, net purchases, $ billion , partially offset cash used acquire property, plant and equipment $ billion . Cash used financing activities $ billion during consisted primarily cash used repurchase common stock $ billion , cash used pay dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion , cash used repay term debt $ billion and net repayments commercial paper $ billion , partially offset net proceeds from the issuance term debt $ billion . During , cash generated operating activities $ billion was result $ billion net income and increase the net change operating assets and liabilities $ billion , partially offset non-cash adjustments net income $ billion . Cash generated investing activities $ billion during consisted primarily proceeds from maturities and sales marketable securities, net purchases, $ billion , partially offset cash used acquire property, plant and equipment $ billion . Cash used financing activities $ billion during consisted primarily cash used repurchase common stock $ billion , cash used pay dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion and cash used repay term debt $ billion , partially offset net proceeds from the issuance term debt $ billion . Apple Inc. | Form - | Capital Assets The Company’ capital expenditures were $ billion during , which included product tooling and manufacturing process equipment; data centers; corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements; and retail store facilities. Debt The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant commercial paper program. The Company uses the net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. September , , the Company had $ billion Commercial Paper outstanding, with weighted-average interest rate % and maturities generally less than nine months . September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate principal amount $ billion (collectively the “Notes”). During , the Company issued $ billion and repaid $ billion Notes. The Company has entered, and the future may enter, into interest rate swaps manage interest rate risk the Notes. addition, the Company has entered, and the future may enter, into foreign currency swaps manage foreign currency risk the Notes. Further information regarding the Company’ debt issuances and related hedging activity can found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Financial Instruments” and Note , “Debt.” Capital Return Program April , , the Company announced the Board Directors increased the current share repurchase program authorization from $ billion $ billion the Company’ common stock, which $ billion had been utilized September , . During , the Company repurchased million shares its common stock for $ billion , including million shares delivered under $ billion ASR dated February , which settled August . The Company’ share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under this program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Exchange Act. April , , the Company also announced the Board Directors raised the Company’ quarterly cash dividend from $ $ per share, beginning with the dividend paid during the third quarter . The Company intends increase its dividend annual basis, subject declaration the Board Directors. Contractual Obligations The following table presents certain payments due the Company September , , and excludes amounts already recorded the Consolidated Balance Sheet, except for term debt and the deemed repatriation tax payable ( millions): Payments due Payments due – Payments due – Payments due after Total Term debt $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating leases , , , , , Manufacturing purchase obligations ( ) , , , Other purchase obligations , , , Deemed repatriation tax payable — , , , , Total $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Represents amount expected paid under manufacturing-related supplier arrangements, which are primarily noncancelable. Operating Leases The Company’ retail store and other facility leases typically have original terms not exceeding years and generally contain multi-year renewal options. Manufacturing Purchase Obligations The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company’ products and perform final assembly and testing finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods days . The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Apple Inc. | Form - | Other Purchase Obligations The Company’ other purchase obligations consist noncancelable obligations acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and noncancelable obligations related advertising, licensing, & , Internet and telecommunications services, content creation and other activities. Deemed Repatriation Tax Payable September , , significant portion the other non-current liabilities the Company’ Consolidated Balance Sheet consisted the deemed repatriation tax payable imposed the Act. The Company plans pay the deemed repatriation tax payable installments accordance with the Act. Other Non-Current Liabilities The Company’ remaining other non-current liabilities primarily consist items for which the Company unable make reasonably reliable estimate the timing amount payments; therefore, such amounts are not included the above contractual obligation table. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and the Company’ discussion and analysis its financial condition and operating results require the Company’ management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note , “Summary Significant Accounting Policies,” the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Part , Item this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company’ consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates, and such differences may material. Management believes the Company’ critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, valuation manufacturing-related assets and estimation inventory purchase commitment cancellation fees, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company’ financial condition and operating results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Company’ senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company’ Board Directors. Revenue Recognition The Company has identified three performance obligations regularly included arrangements involving the sale iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products. The first performance obligation, which represents the substantial portion the allocated sales price, the hardware and bundled software delivered the time sale. The second performance obligation the right receive certain product-related bundled services, which include iCloud, Siri and Maps. The third performance obligation the right receive, when-and- -available basis, future unspecified software upgrades relating the software bundled with each device. The Company allocates revenue and any related discounts these performance obligations based their relative stand-alone selling prices (“SSPs”). Because the Company lacks observable prices for the undelivered performance obligations, the allocation revenue based the Company’ estimated SSPs. Revenue allocated the product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated period they are expected provided. The Company’ process for determining estimated SSPs involves management’ judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable. Should future facts and circumstances change, the Company’ SSPs and the future rate related amortization for product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights related future sales these devices could change. Factors subject change include the nature the product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights offered, their estimated value and the estimated period they are expected provided. Apple Inc. | Form - | Valuation Manufacturing-Related Assets and Estimation Inventory Purchase Commitment Cancellation Fees The Company invests manufacturing-related assets, including capital assets held its suppliers’ facilities and prepayments provided certain its suppliers associated with long-term agreements secure the supply inventory. The Company also accrues estimated purchase commitment cancellation fees related inventory orders that have been canceled are expected canceled. The Company’ estimates future product development plans and demand for its products are the key inputs the determination the recoverability manufacturing-related assets and the assessment the adequacy any purchase commitment cancellation fee accruals. there abrupt and substantial decline estimated demand for one more the Company’ products, change the Company’ product development plans, unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company’ products, the Company may required record write-downs impairments manufacturing-related assets accrue purchase commitment cancellation fees. Warranty Costs The Company offers limited warranties its new hardware products and parts used repair its hardware products, and customers may purchase extended service coverage, where available, many the Company’ hardware products. The Company accrues the estimated cost warranties the period the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost per claim and knowledge specific product failures outside the Company’ typical experience. The Company regularly reviews these estimates and adjusts the amounts necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liabilities would required. Income Taxes The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater-than- % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. The calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management’ expectations could have material impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Legal Proceedings” and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Commitments and Contingencies,” the Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. The Company records liability when probable that loss has been incurred and the amount reasonably estimable, the determination which requires significant judgment. Except described Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Commitments and Contingencies” under the heading “Contingencies,” the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss greater than recorded accrual, concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. The outcome litigation inherently uncertain. one more legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts above management’ expectations, the Company’ financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and interest rate swaps, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate exposures. Given the effective horizons the Company’ risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance these positions will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. Further, the recognition the gains and losses related these instruments may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk The Company’ exposure changes interest rates relates primarily the Company’ investment portfolio and outstanding debt. While the Company exposed global interest rate fluctuations, the Company’ interest income and expense are most sensitive fluctuations . interest rates. Changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company’ cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value those securities, well costs associated with hedging and interest paid the Company’ debt. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ investment policy and strategy are focused the preservation capital and supporting the Company’ liquidity requirements. The Company uses combination internal and external management execute its investment strategy and achieve its investment objectives. The Company typically invests highly rated securities, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. The Company’ investment policy generally requires securities investment grade and limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company’ investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , and September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ billion and $ billion incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio, respectively. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. September , and September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate carrying amount $ billion and $ billion , respectively. The Company has entered, and the future may enter, into interest rate swaps manage interest rate risk its outstanding term debt. Interest rate swaps allow the Company effectively convert fixed-rate payments into floating-rate payments floating-rate payments into fixed-rate payments. Gains and losses term debt are generally offset the corresponding losses and gains the related hedging instrument. basis point increase market interest rates would cause interest expense the Company’ debt September , and September , increase $ million and $ million annualized basis, respectively. Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, will negatively affect the Company’ net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There risk that the Company will have adjust local currency pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments foreign subsidiaries. addition, the Company has entered, and the future may enter, into foreign currency contracts partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses its foreign currency–denominated debt issuances. The Company generally hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for months. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for variety reasons including, but not limited , accounting considerations the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. provide assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company’ foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (“VAR”) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate thousands random market price paths assuming normal market conditions. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company’ foreign currency derivative positions due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence, maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , , compared maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, the losses fair value incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company’ investment portfolio, debt and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount changes interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and the Company’ actual exposures and positions. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and per share amounts) Years ended September , September , September , Net sales: Products $ , $ , $ , Services , , , Total net sales , , , Cost sales: Products , , , Services , , , Total cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development , , , Selling, general and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income/(expense), net , , , Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income/(loss): Change foreign currency translation, net tax ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gains losses derivative instruments, net tax: Change fair value derivatives ( ) , Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included net income ( , ) Total change unrealized gains losses derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gains losses marketable securities, net tax: Change fair value marketable securities , ( , ) ( ) Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included net income ( ) Total change unrealized gains losses marketable securities , ( , ) ( ) Total other comprehensive income/(loss) , ( , ) ( ) Total comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and par value) September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventories , , Vendor non-trade receivables , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Non-current assets: Marketable securities , , Property, plant and equipment, net , , Other non-current assets , , Total non-current assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Other current liabilities , , Deferred revenue , , Commercial paper , , Term debt , , Total current liabilities , , Non-current liabilities: Term debt , , Other non-current liabilities , , Total non-current liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders’ equity: Common stock and additional paid- capital, $ par value: , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) ( , ) Total shareholders’ equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY ( millions, except per share amounts) Years ended September , September , September , Total shareholders’ equity, beginning balances $ , $ , $ , Common stock and additional paid- capital: Beginning balances , , , Common stock issued Common stock withheld related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation , , , Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments — — Ending balances , , , Retained earnings: Beginning balances , , , Net income , , , Dividends and dividend equivalents declared ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock withheld related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( ) ( ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effects changes accounting principles , — Ending balances , , , Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss): Beginning balances ( , ) ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) , ( , ) ( ) Cumulative effects changes accounting principles ( ) — Ending balances ( ) ( , ) ( ) Total shareholders’ equity, ending balances $ , $ , $ , Dividends and dividend equivalents declared per share RSU $ $ $ See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, beginning balances $ , $ , $ , Operating activities: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization , , , Share-based compensation expense , , , Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) ( ) ( , ) , Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable, net ( , ) ( , ) Inventories ( ) ( , ) Vendor non-trade receivables , ( , ) ( , ) Other current and non-current assets ( ) ( , ) Accounts payable ( , ) , , Deferred revenue ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current and non-current liabilities ( , ) , , Cash generated operating activities , , , Investing activities: Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities marketable securities , , , Proceeds from sales marketable securities , , , Payments for acquisition property, plant and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments made connection with business acquisitions, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Purchases non-marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Proceeds from non-marketable securities , Other ( , ) ( ) ( ) Cash generated /(used ) investing activities , , ( , ) Financing activities: Proceeds from issuance common stock Payments for taxes related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments for dividends and dividend equivalents ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from issuance term debt, net , , , Repayments term debt ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from/(Repayments ) commercial paper, net ( , ) ( ) , Other ( ) — — Cash used financing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Increase/(Decrease) cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash , , ( ) Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, ending balances $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosure: Cash paid for income taxes, net $ , $ , $ , Cash paid for interest $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note – Summary Significant Accounting Policies Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (collectively “Apple” the “Company”). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. the opinion the Company’ management, the consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which are normal and recurring nature, necessary for fair financial statement presentation. The preparation these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior period amounts the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been reclassified conform the current period’ presentation. The Company’ fiscal year the - -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company’ fiscal years and spanned weeks each, whereas fiscal year included weeks. 14th week was included the first fiscal quarter , done every five six years, realign the Company’ fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years, quarters, months and periods refer the Company’ fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters, months and periods those fiscal years. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Revenue Recognition the first quarter , the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board’ (the “FASB”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ) (“ASU - ”), and additional ASUs issued clarify the guidance ASU - (collectively the “new revenue standard”), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. The Company adopted the new revenue standard utilizing the full retrospective transition method. The Company did not restate total net sales the prior periods presented, the adoption the new revenue standard did not have material impact previously reported amounts. Additionally, beginning the first quarter , the Company classified the amortization the deferred value Maps, Siri and free iCloud services, which are bundled the sales price iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products, Services net sales. Historically, the Company classified the amortization these amounts Products net sales consistent with its management reporting framework. result, Products and Services net sales for and were reclassified conform the presentation. Financial Instruments the first quarter , the Company adopted FASB ASU . - , Financial Instruments – Overall (Subtopic - ): Recognition and Measurement Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (“ASU - ”), which updates certain aspects the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure financial instruments. The adoption ASU - did not have material impact the Company’ consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes the first quarter , the Company adopted FASB ASU . - , Income Taxes (Topic ): Intra-Entity Transfers Assets Other Than Inventory (“ASU - ”), which requires the recognition the income tax consequences intra-entity transfer asset, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs. The Company adopted ASU - utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Upon adoption, the Company recorded $ billion net deferred tax assets, reduced other non-current assets $ million , and increased retained earnings $ billion its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company will recognize incremental deferred income tax expense these net deferred tax assets are utilized. Restricted Cash the first quarter , the Company adopted FASB ASU . - , Statement Cash Flows (Topic ): Restricted Cash (“ASU - ”), which enhances and clarifies the guidance the classification and presentation restricted cash the statement cash flows and requires additional disclosures about restricted cash balances. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred and included selling, general and administrative expenses. Apple Inc. | Form - | Share-Based Compensation The Company generally measures share-based compensation based the closing price the Company’ common stock the date grant, and recognizes expense straight-line basis for its estimate equity awards that will ultimately vest. Further information regarding share-based compensation can found Note , “Benefit Plans.” Earnings Per Share The following table shows the computation basic and diluted earnings per share for , and (net income millions and shares thousands): Numerator: Net income $ , $ , $ , Denominator: Weighted-average basic shares outstanding , , , , , , Effect dilutive securities , , , Weighted-average diluted shares , , , , , , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ The Company applies the treasury stock method determine the dilutive effect potentially dilutive securities. Potentially dilutive securities representing million shares common stock were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per share for because their effect would have been antidilutive. Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. The Company’ investments marketable debt securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. The Company classifies its marketable debt securities either short-term long-term based each instrument’ underlying contractual maturity date. Unrealized gains and losses marketable debt securities classified available-for-sale are recognized other comprehensive income/(loss) (“OCI”). The Company’ investments marketable equity securities are classified based the nature the securities and their availability for use current operations. The Company’ marketable equity securities are measured fair value with gains and losses recognized other income/(expense), net (“ & ”). The cost securities sold determined using the specific identification method. Inventories Inventories are measured using the first- , first-out method. Property, Plant and Equipment Depreciation property, plant and equipment recognized straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets, which for buildings the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building; between one and five years for machinery and equipment, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment; and the shorter lease term useful life for leasehold improvements. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from three five years . Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ billion , $ billion and $ billion during , and , respectively. Non-cash investing activities involving property, plant and equipment resulted net increase/(decrease) accounts payable and other current liabilities $( ) billion and $ billion during and , respectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | Non-Marketable Securities The Company has elected apply the measurement alternative equity securities without readily determinable fair values. such, the Company’ non-marketable equity securities are measured cost, less any impairment, and are adjusted for changes fair value resulting from observable transactions for identical similar investments the same issuer. Gains and losses non-marketable equity securities are recognized & . Restricted Cash and Restricted Marketable Securities The Company considers cash and marketable securities restricted when withdrawal general use legally restricted. The Company records restricted cash other assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and determines current non-current classification based the expected duration the restriction. The Company records restricted marketable securities current non-current marketable securities the Consolidated Balance Sheets based the classification the underlying securities . Fair Value Measurements The fair values the Company’ money market funds and certain marketable equity securities are based quoted prices active markets for identical assets. The valuation techniques used measure the fair value the Company’ debt instruments and all other financial instruments, which generally have counterparties with high credit ratings, are based quoted market prices model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. Note – Revenue Recognition Net sales consist revenue from the sale iPhone, Mac, iPad, Services and other products. The Company recognizes revenue the amount which expects entitled when control the products services transferred its customers. Control generally transferred when the Company has present right payment and title and the significant risks and rewards ownership products services are transferred its customers. For most the Company’ Products net sales, control transfers when products are shipped. For the Company’ Services net sales, control transfers over time services are delivered. Payment for Products and Services net sales collected within short period following transfer control commencement delivery services, applicable. The Company records reductions Products net sales related future product returns, price protection and other customer incentive programs based the Company’ expectations and historical experience. For arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which represent promises within arrangement that are capable being distinct, the Company allocates revenue all distinct performance obligations based their relative stand-alone selling prices (“SSPs”). When available, the Company uses observable prices determine SSPs. When observable prices are not available, SSPs are established that reflect the Company’ best estimates what the selling prices the performance obligations would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. The Company’ process for estimating SSPs without observable prices considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each performance obligation including, where applicable, prices charged the Company for similar offerings, market trends the pricing for similar offerings, product-specific business objectives and the estimated cost provide the performance obligation. The Company has identified three performance obligations regularly included arrangements involving the sale iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products. The first performance obligation, which represents the substantial portion the allocated sales price, the hardware and bundled software delivered the time sale. The second performance obligation the right receive certain product-related bundled services, which include iCloud, Siri and Maps. The third performance obligation the right receive, when-and- -available basis, future unspecified software upgrades relating the software bundled with each device. The Company allocates revenue and any related discounts these performance obligations based their relative SSPs. Because the Company lacks observable prices for the undelivered performance obligations, the allocation revenue based the Company’ estimated SSPs. Revenue allocated the delivered hardware and bundled software recognized when control has transferred the customer, which generally occurs when the product shipped. Revenue allocated the product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated period they are expected provided. Cost sales related delivered hardware and bundled software, including estimated warranty costs, are recognized the time sale. Costs incurred provide product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights are recognized cost sales incurred. For certain long-term service arrangements, the Company has performance obligations for services has not yet delivered. For these arrangements, the Company does not have right bill for the undelivered services. The Company has determined that any unbilled consideration relates entirely the value the undelivered services. Accordingly, the Company has not recognized revenue, and has elected not disclose amounts, related these undelivered services. Apple Inc. | Form - | For the sale third-party products where the Company obtains control the product before transferring the customer, the Company recognizes revenue based the gross amount billed customers. The Company considers multiple factors when determining whether obtains control third-party products including, but not limited , evaluating can establish the price the product, retains inventory risk for tangible products has the responsibility for ensuring acceptability the product. For third-party applications sold through the App Store, Mac App Store, App Store and Watch App Store and certain digital content sold through the Company’ other digital content stores, the Company does not obtain control the product before transferring the customer. Therefore, the Company accounts for such sales net basis recognizing Services net sales only the commission retains. The Company has elected record revenue net taxes collected from customers that are remitted governmental authorities, with the collected taxes recorded within other current liabilities until remitted the relevant government authority. Deferred Revenue September , and September , , the Company had total deferred revenue $ billion and $ billion , respectively. September , , the Company expects % total deferred revenue realized less than year, % within one- -two years, % within two- -three years and % greater than three years. Disaggregated Revenue Net sales disaggregated significant products and services for , and were follows ( millions): iPhone ( ) $ , $ , $ , Mac ( ) , , , iPad ( ) , , , Wearables, Home and Accessories ( )( ) , , , Services ( ) , , , Total net sales ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Products net sales include amortization the deferred value unspecified software upgrade rights, which are bundled the sales price the respective product. ( ) Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales include sales AirPods, Apple , Apple Watch, Beats products, HomePod, iPod touch and Apple-branded and third-party accessories. ( ) Services net sales include sales from the Company’ digital content stores and streaming services, AppleCare, licensing and other services. Services net sales also include amortization the deferred value Maps, Siri and free iCloud services, which are bundled the sales price certain products. ( ) Includes $ billion revenue recognized that was included deferred revenue September , , $ billion revenue recognized that was included deferred revenue September , , and $ billion revenue recognized that was included deferred revenue September , . The Company’ proportion net sales disaggregated revenue source was generally consistent for each reportable segment Note , “Segment Information and Geographic Data” for , and . Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables show the Company’ cash and marketable securities significant investment category September , and September , ( millions): Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-Term Marketable Securities Long-Term Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , $ , $ — $ — Level ( ) : Money market funds , — — , , — — Subtotal , — — , , — — Level ( ) : . Treasury securities , ( ) , , , , . agency securities , ( ) , , , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , — — , , , Commercial paper , — — , , , — Corporate debt securities , ( ) , , , Municipal securities ( ) — Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , — , , Subtotal , , ( ) , , , , Total ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-Term Marketable Securities Long-Term Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , $ , $ — $ — Level ( ) : Money market funds , — — , , — — Mutual funds — ( ) — — Subtotal , — ( ) , , — Level ( ) : . Treasury securities , — ( , ) , , , , . agency securities , — ( ) , , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , — , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , — — , , , Commercial paper , — — , , — Corporate debt securities , ( , ) , — , , Municipal securities — ( ) — Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , — , Subtotal , ( , ) , , , , Total ( ) $ , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Level fair value estimates are based quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. ( ) Level fair value estimates are based observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. ( ) September , and September , , total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $ billion and $ billion , respectively, that was restricted from general use, related the State Aid Decision (refer Note , “Income Taxes”) and other agreements. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company may sell certain its marketable debt securities prior their stated maturities for reasons including, but not limited , managing liquidity, credit risk, duration and asset allocation. The maturities the Company’ long-term marketable debt securities generally range from one five years . The following tables show information about the Company’ marketable securities that had been continuous unrealized loss position for less than months and for months greater September , and September , ( millions): Continuous Unrealized Losses Less than Months Months Greater Total Fair value marketable debt securities $ , $ , $ , Unrealized losses $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Continuous Unrealized Losses Less than Months Months Greater Total Fair value marketable securities $ , $ , $ , Unrealized losses $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) The Company typically invests highly rated securities, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. The Company’ investment policy generally requires securities investment grade and limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. Fair values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. When evaluating marketable debt security for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such the duration and extent which the fair value the security less than its cost, the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Company’ intent sell, whether will more likely than not required sell, the security before recovery its amortized cost basis. September , , the Company does not consider any its marketable debt securities other-than-temporarily impaired. Non-Marketable Securities The Company holds non-marketable equity securities certain privately held companies without readily determinable fair values. September , , the Company’ non-marketable equity securities had carrying value $ billion . Restricted Cash reconciliation the Company’ cash and cash equivalents the Consolidated Balance Sheet cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash the Consolidated Statement Cash Flows September , follows ( millions): Cash and cash equivalents $ , Restricted cash included other current assets Restricted cash included other non-current assets , Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ , The Company’ restricted cash primarily consisted cash required deposit under contractual agreement with bank support the Company’ iPhone Upgrade Program. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company may use derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign currency and interest rate risk expected future cash flows, net investments certain foreign subsidiaries, and certain existing assets and liabilities. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain exposures for variety reasons including, but not limited , accounting considerations the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. There can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements foreign currency exchange interest rates. protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, certain the Company’ subsidiaries whose functional currency the . dollar may hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenue, and subsidiaries whose functional currency not the . dollar may hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries’ functional currencies. The Company may enter into forward contracts, option contracts other instruments manage this risk and may designate these instruments cash flow hedges. The Company generally hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for months . Apple Inc. | Form - | protect the net investment foreign operation from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset portion the changes the carrying amounts these investments due fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. addition, the Company may use non-derivative financial instruments, such its foreign currency–denominated debt, hedges its net investments certain foreign subsidiaries. both these cases, the Company designates these instruments net investment hedges. protect the Company’ foreign currency–denominated term debt marketable securities from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into forward contracts, cross-currency swaps other instruments. These instruments may offset portion the foreign currency remeasurement gains losses, changes fair value. The Company may designate these instruments either cash flow fair value hedges. September , , the Company’ hedged term debt– and marketable securities–related foreign currency transactions are expected recognized within years . The Company may also enter into non-designated foreign currency contracts offset portion the foreign currency exchange gains and losses generated the remeasurement certain assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. protect the Company’ foreign currency–denominated term debt marketable securities from fluctuations interest rates, the Company may enter into interest rate swaps, options other instruments. These instruments may offset portion the changes interest income expense, changes fair value. The Company designates these instruments either cash flow fair value hedges. September , , the Company’ hedged interest rate transactions are expected recognized within years . Cash Flow Hedges The effective portions cash flow hedges are recorded accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (“AOCI”) until the hedged item recognized earnings. Deferred gains and losses associated with cash flow hedges foreign currency revenue are recognized component net sales the same period the related revenue recognized, and deferred gains and losses related cash flow hedges inventory purchases are recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Deferred gains and losses associated with cash flow hedges interest income expense are recognized & the same period the related income expense recognized. For options designated cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness. The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness testing cash flow hedges are recognized & . Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent two-month time period. Deferred gains and losses AOCI associated with such derivative instruments are reclassified into & the period -designation. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are reflected & unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. Net Investment Hedges The effective portions net investment hedges are recorded OCI part the cumulative translation adjustment. The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness testing net investment hedges are recognized & . For foreign exchange forward contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its assessment hedge effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this forward carry component are recognized earnings the current period. Fair Value Hedges Gains and losses related changes fair value hedges are recognized earnings along with corresponding loss gain related the change value the underlying hedged item the same line the Consolidated Statements Operations. For foreign exchange forward contracts designated fair value hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its assessment hedge effectiveness. The amount excluded from the effectiveness testing fair value hedges was gain $ million for , and was recognized & . Non-Designated Derivatives Derivatives that are not designated hedging instruments are adjusted fair value through earnings the financial statement line item which the derivative relates. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company records all derivatives the Consolidated Balance Sheets fair value. The Company’ accounting treatment for these derivative instruments based its hedge designation. The following tables show the Company’ derivative instruments gross fair value September , and September , ( millions): Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , Interest rate contracts $ $ — $ Derivative liabilities ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , Interest rate contracts $ $ — $ Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , Derivative liabilities ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Interest rate contracts $ , $ — $ , ( ) The fair value derivative assets measured using Level fair value inputs and recorded other current assets and other non-current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. ( ) The fair value derivative liabilities measured using Level fair value inputs and recorded other current liabilities and other non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company classifies cash flows related derivative financial instruments operating activities its Consolidated Statements Cash Flows. Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table shows the pre-tax gains and losses the Company’ derivative and non-derivative instruments designated cash flow, net investment and fair value hedges OCI and the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and ( millions): Gains/(Losses) recognized OCI – effective portion: Cash flow hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ ( ) $ $ , Interest rate contracts — Total $ ( ) $ $ , Net investment hedges: Foreign currency debt $ ( ) $ $ Gains/(Losses) reclassified from AOCI into net income – effective portion: Cash flow hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Interest rate contracts ( ) ( ) Total $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Gains/(Losses) derivative instruments: Fair value hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ ( ) $ — Interest rate contracts , ( , ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( , ) $ ( ) Gains/(Losses) related hedged items: Fair value hedges: Marketable securities $ ( , ) $ $ — Fixed-rate debt ( , ) , Total $ ( , ) $ , $ The following table shows the notional amounts the Company’ outstanding derivative instruments and credit risk amounts associated with outstanding unsettled derivative instruments September , and September , ( millions): Notional Amount Credit Risk Amount Notional Amount Credit Risk Amount Instruments designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , $ , $ , Interest rate contracts $ , $ $ , $ — Instruments not designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , $ The notional amounts for outstanding derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding and not represent the amount the Company’ exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amounts represent the Company’ gross exposure potential accounting loss derivative instruments that are outstanding unsettled all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency interest rates each respective date. The Company’ exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time currency and interest rates change. Although the table above reflects the notional and credit risk amounts the Company’ derivative instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company generally enters into master netting arrangements, which are designed reduce credit risk permitting net settlement transactions with the same counterparty. further limit credit risk, the Company generally enters into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral received posted when the net fair value certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities their gross fair values its Consolidated Balance Sheets. September , , the net cash collateral received the Company related derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements was $ billion , which was recorded other current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheet. September , , the net cash collateral posted the Company related derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements was $ billion , which was recorded other current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under master netting arrangements with the respective counterparties the Company’ derivative contracts, the Company allowed net settle transactions with single net amount payable one party the other. September , and September , , the potential effects these rights set-off associated with the Company’ derivative contracts, including the effects collateral, would reduction both derivative assets and derivative liabilities $ billion and $ billion , respectively, resulting net derivative liability $ million and net derivative asset $ million , respectively. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company has considerable trade receivables outstanding with its third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, resellers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral third-party credit support certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company attempts limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers requiring third-party financing, loans leases support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. September , , the Company had customers that individually represented % more total trade receivables. September , , the Company had one customer that represented % more total trade receivables, which accounted for % . The Company’ cellular network carriers accounted for % and % total trade receivables September , and September , , respectively. Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale components these vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these components directly from suppliers. September , , the Company had two vendors that individually represented % more total vendor non-trade receivables, which accounted for % and % . September , , the Company had two vendors that individually represented % more total vendor non-trade receivables, which accounted for % and % . Note – Consolidated Financial Statement Details The following tables show the Company’ consolidated financial statement details September , and September , ( millions): Property, Plant and Equipment, Net Land and buildings $ , $ , Machinery, equipment and internal-use software , , Leasehold improvements , , Gross property, plant and equipment , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Total property, plant and equipment, net $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Other Non-Current Liabilities Long-term taxes payable $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities , , Total other non-current liabilities $ , $ , Other Income/(Expense), Net The following table shows the detail & for , and ( millions): Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income/(expense), net ( ) ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ , $ , $ , Note – Income Taxes . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act December , , the . enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”), which significantly changed . tax law. The Act lowered the Company’ . statutory federal income tax rate from % % effective January , , while also imposing deemed repatriation tax previously deferred foreign income. The Act also created new minimum tax certain foreign earnings, for which the Company has elected record certain deferred tax assets and liabilities. The Company completed its accounting for the income tax effects the Act during , accordance with the . Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin . . Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rate The provision for income taxes for , and , consisted the following ( millions): Federal: Current $ , $ , $ , Deferred ( , ) ( , ) , Total , , , State: Current Deferred ( ) Total Foreign: Current , , , Deferred , , ( ) Total , , , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pre-tax earnings $ billion , $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % ; % ; % ) income before provision for income taxes for , and , follows (dollars millions): Computed expected tax $ , $ , $ , State taxes, net federal effect Impacts the Act — , — Earnings foreign subsidiaries ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Excess tax benefits from equity awards ( ) ( ) — Other ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Company’ income taxes payable have been reduced the tax benefits from employee stock plan awards. For restricted stock units (“RSUs”), the Company receives income tax benefit upon the award’ vesting equal the tax effect the underlying stock’ fair market value. Prior , the Company reflected net excess tax benefits from equity awards increases additional paid- capital, which amounted $ million . Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities September , and September , , the significant components the Company’ deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Deferred tax assets: Amortization and depreciation $ , $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves , , Deferred revenue , , Share-based compensation Unrealized losses — Other Total deferred tax assets, net , , Deferred tax liabilities: Minimum tax foreign earnings , — Earnings foreign subsidiaries Other Total deferred tax liabilities , Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) $ , $ , Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax credits and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. Apple Inc. | Form - | Uncertain Tax Positions September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion , which $ billion , recognized, would impact the Company’ effective tax rate. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion , which $ billion , recognized, would have impacted the Company’ effective tax rate. The aggregate change the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, for , and , follows ( millions): Beginning balances $ , $ , $ , Increases related tax positions taken during prior year , , Decreases related tax positions taken during prior year ( ) ( , ) ( ) Increases related tax positions taken during the current year , , , Decreases related settlements with taxing authorities ( ) ( ) ( ) Decreases related expiration the statute limitations ( ) — ( ) Ending balances $ , $ , $ , The Company subject taxation and files income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. The . Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) concluded its review the years through , and all years before are closed. Tax years after remain open certain major foreign jurisdictions and are subject examination the taxing authorities. The Company believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company’ tax audits are resolved manner inconsistent with its expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income taxes the period such resolution occurs. Although the timing resolution and closure audits not certain, the Company believes reasonably possible that its gross unrecognized tax benefits could decrease the next months much $ billion . Interest and Penalties The Company includes interest and penalties related income tax matters within the provision for income taxes. September , and September , , the total amount gross interest and penalties accrued was $ billion and $ billion , respectively. The Company recognized interest and penalty expense , and $ million , $ million and $ million , respectively. European Commission State Aid Decision August , , the European Commission announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid the Company providing tax opinions and concerning the tax allocation profits the Irish branches two subsidiaries the Company (the “State Aid Decision”). The State Aid Decision ordered Ireland calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the period June through December . The recovery amount was calculated € billion , plus interest € billion . During the fourth quarter , the Irish Minister for Finance approved the Company’ request reduce the recovery amount € million due taxes paid other countries, resulting adjusted recovery amount € billion September , . Irish legislative changes, effective January , eliminated the application the tax opinions from that date forward. The Company believes the State Aid Decision without merit and appealed the General Court the Court Justice the European Union. Ireland has also appealed the State Aid Decision. The Company believes that any incremental Irish corporate income taxes potentially due related the State Aid Decision would creditable against . taxes, subject any foreign tax credit limitations the Act. September , , the entire adjusted recovery amount plus interest was funded into escrow, where will remain restricted from general use pending the conclusion all appeals. Refer the Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities section Note , “Financial Instruments” for more information. Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Debt Commercial Paper The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant commercial paper program. The Company uses net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. September , and September , , the Company had $ billion and $ billion Commercial Paper outstanding, respectively, with maturities generally less than nine months . The weighted-average interest rate the Company’ Commercial Paper was % and % September , and September , , respectively. The following table provides summary cash flows associated with the issuance and maturities Commercial Paper for , and ( millions): Maturities days less: Proceeds from/(Repayments ) commercial paper, net $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) Maturities greater than days: Proceeds from commercial paper , , , Repayments commercial paper ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from/(Repayments ) commercial paper, net ( , ) ( , ) , Total proceeds from/(repayments ) commercial paper, net $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ , Term Debt September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate principal amount $ billion (collectively the “Notes”). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and interest payable arrears. The following table provides summary the Company’ term debt September , and September , : Maturities (calendar year) Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate – debt issuances: Floating-rate notes – $ , % – % $ , % – % Fixed-rate % – % notes – , % – % , % – % debt issuance: Fixed-rate % – % notes – , % – % — — % Total term debt , , Unamortized premium/(discount) and issuance costs, net ( ) ( ) Hedge accounting fair value adjustments ( , ) Less: Current portion term debt ( , ) ( , ) Total non-current portion term debt $ , $ , manage interest rate risk certain its . dollar–denominated fixed- floating-rate notes, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps effectively convert the fixed interest rates floating interest rates the floating interest rates fixed interest rates portion these notes. Additionally, manage foreign currency risk certain its foreign currency–denominated notes, the Company has entered into foreign currency swaps effectively convert these notes . dollar–denominated notes. portion the Company’ Japanese yen–denominated notes designated hedge the foreign currency exposure the Company’ net investment foreign operation. September , and September , , the carrying value the debt designated net investment hedge was $ billion and $ million , respectively. For further discussion regarding the Company’ use derivative instruments, refer the Derivative Financial Instruments section Note , “Financial Instruments.” The effective interest rates for the Notes include the interest the Notes, amortization the discount premium and, applicable, adjustments related hedging. The Company recognized $ billion , $ billion and $ billion interest cost its term debt for , and , respectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | The future principal payments for the Company’ Notes September , are follows ( millions): $ , , , , , Thereafter , Total term debt $ , September , and September , , the fair value the Company’ Notes, based Level inputs, was $ billion and $ billion , respectively. Note – Shareholders’ Equity Share Repurchase Program April , , the Company announced the Board Directors increased the current share repurchase program authorization from $ billion $ billion the Company’ common stock, which $ billion had been utilized September , . During , the Company repurchased million shares its common stock for $ billion , including million shares delivered under $ billion accelerated share repurchase arrangement dated February , which settled August . The Company’ share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under this program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the “Exchange Act”). Shares Common Stock The following table shows the changes shares common stock for , and ( thousands): Common stock outstanding, beginning balances , , , , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock issued, net shares withheld for employee taxes , , , Common stock outstanding, ending balances , , , , , , Note – Comprehensive Income The Company’ OCI consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges and unrealized gains and losses marketable debt securities classified available-for-sale. The following table shows the pre-tax amounts reclassified from AOCI into the Consolidated Statements Operations, and the associated financial statement line item, for and ( millions): Comprehensive Income Components Financial Statement Line Item Unrealized (gains)/losses derivative instruments: Foreign exchange contracts Total net sales $ ( ) $ Total cost sales ( ) ( ) Other income/(expense), net Interest rate contracts Other income/(expense), net ( ) Unrealized (gains)/losses marketable securities Other income/(expense), net ( ) Total amounts reclassified from AOCI $ $ Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table shows the changes AOCI component for and ( millions): Cumulative Foreign Currency Translation Unrealized Gains Losses Derivative Instruments Unrealized Gains Losses Marketable Securities Total Balances September , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) before reclassifications ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Amounts reclassified from AOCI — ( ) Tax effect ( ) ( ) , Other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) ( ) ( ) Balances September , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) before reclassifications ( ) ( ) , , Amounts reclassified from AOCI — Tax effect ( , ) ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) ( ) , , Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) — — Balances September , $ ( , ) $ $ $ ( ) ( ) Refer Note , “Summary Significant Accounting Policies” for more information the Company’ adoption ASU - . Note – Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan the second quarter , shareholders approved the Employee Stock Plan (the “ Plan”) and terminated the Company’ authority grant new awards under the Employee Stock Plan (the “ Plan”). The Plan provides for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers, and permits the granting RSUs, stock grants, performance-based awards, stock options and stock appreciation rights, well cash bonus awards. RSUs granted under the Plan generally vest over four years , based continued employment, and are settled upon vesting shares the Company’ common stock one -for-one basis. RSUs granted under the Plan reduce the number shares available for grant under the plan factor two times the number RSUs granted. RSUs canceled and shares withheld satisfy tax withholding obligations increase the number shares available for grant under the Plan utilizing factor two times the number RSUs canceled shares withheld. Currently, all RSUs granted under the Plan have dividend equivalent rights (“DERs”), which entitle holders RSUs the same dividend value per share holders common stock. DERs are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the corresponding unvested RSUs. DERs are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest. Upon approval the Plan, the Company reserved million shares plus the number shares remaining that were reserved but not issued under the Plan. Shares subject outstanding awards under the Plan that expire, are canceled otherwise terminate, are withheld satisfy tax withholding obligations for RSUs, will also available for awards under the Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Plan. Apple Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Plan The Apple Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Plan (the “Director Plan”) shareholder-approved plan that ( ) permits the Company grant awards RSUs stock options the Company’ non-employee directors, ( ) provides for automatic initial grants RSUs upon non-employee director joining the Board Directors and automatic annual grants RSUs each annual meeting shareholders, and (iii) permits the Board Directors prospectively change the value and relative mixture stock options and RSUs for the initial and annual award grants and the methodology for determining the number shares the Company’ common stock subject these grants, each case within the limits set forth the Director Plan and without further shareholder approval. RSUs granted under the Director Plan reduce the number shares available for grant under the plan factor two times the number RSUs granted. The Director Plan expires November , . All RSUs granted under the Director Plan are entitled DERs. DERs are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the corresponding unvested RSUs. DERs are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Director Plan. Apple Inc. | Form - | Rule 10b5- Trading Plans During the three months ended September , , Section officers Timothy . Cook, Chris Kondo, Luca Maestri, Deirdre ’Brien and Jeffrey Williams had equity trading plans place accordance with Rule 10b5- ( )( ) under the Exchange Act. equity trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company’ stock, including shares acquired under the Company’ employee and director equity plans. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “Purchase Plan”) shareholder-approved plan under which substantially all employees may purchase the Company’ common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the stock the beginning the end six-month offering periods. employee’ payroll deductions under the Purchase Plan are limited % the employee’ compensation and employees may not purchase more than $ , stock during any calendar year. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. ( ) Plan The Company’ ( ) Plan deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the ( ) Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the IRS annual contribution limit ( $ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee’ contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee’ eligible earnings. Restricted Stock Units summary the Company’ RSU activity and related information for , and , follows: Number RSUs ( thousands) Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value Per RSU Aggregate Fair Value ( millions) Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ $ , The fair value the respective vesting dates RSUs was $ billion , $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. The majority RSUs that vested , and were net share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the employees’ obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld were approximately million , million and million for , and , respectively, and were based the value the RSUs their respective vesting dates determined the Company’ closing stock price. Total payments for the employees’ tax obligations taxing authorities were $ billion , $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. These net share settlements had the effect share repurchases the Company they reduced the number shares that would have otherwise been issued result the vesting and did not represent expense the Company. Apple Inc. | Form - | Share-Based Compensation The following table shows share-based compensation expense and the related income tax benefit included the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and ( millions): Share-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefit related share-based compensation expense $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) September , , the total unrecognized compensation cost related outstanding RSUs and stock options was $ billion , which the Company expects recognize over weighted-average period years . Note – Commitments and Contingencies Accrued Warranty and Guarantees The following table shows changes the Company’ accrued warranties and related costs for , and ( millions): Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ , $ , Cost warranty claims ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accruals for product warranty , , , Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ , $ , The Company offers iPhone Upgrade Program, which available customers who purchase qualifying iPhone the ., the . and mainland China. The iPhone Upgrade Program provides customers the right trade that iPhone for specified amount when purchasing new iPhone, provided certain conditions are met. The Company accounts for the trade- right guarantee liability and recognizes arrangement revenue net the fair value such right, with subsequent changes the guarantee liability recognized within net sales. Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company’ business are generally available from multiple sources, certain components are currently obtained from single limited sources. The Company also competes for various components with other participants the markets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets and other electronic devices. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components; however, there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Substantially all the Company’ hardware products are manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured the . and Ireland. Other Off–Balance Sheet Commitments Operating Leases The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off–balance sheet financing arrangements. September , , the Company’ total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion . The Company’ retail store and other facility leases typically have original terms not exceeding years and generally contain multi-year renewal options. Apple Inc. | Form - | Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ billion , $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having initial remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): $ , , , Thereafter , Total $ , Unconditional Purchase Obligations The Company has entered into certain off–balance sheet commitments that require the future purchase goods services (“unconditional purchase obligations”). The Company’ unconditional purchase obligations primarily consist payments for supplier arrangements, Internet and telecommunication services, intellectual property licenses and content creation. Future payments under noncancelable unconditional purchase obligations having remaining term excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): $ , , , , Thereafter Total $ , Contingencies The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and that have not been fully resolved. The outcome litigation inherently uncertain. one more legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts above management’ expectations, the Company’ financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss greater than recorded accrual, concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims, except for the following matters: VirnetX VirnetX, Inc. (“VirnetX”) filed two lawsuits the . District Court for the Eastern District Texas (the “Eastern Texas District Court”) against the Company alleging that certain Company products infringe four patents (the “VirnetX Patents”) relating network communications technology (“VirnetX ” and “VirnetX ”). September , , jury returned verdict VirnetX against the Company and awarded damages $ million , which later increased $ million post-trial proceedings. The Company appealed the VirnetX verdict the . Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the “Federal Circuit”). April , , jury returned verdict VirnetX against the Company and awarded damages $ million . VirnetX currently appeal. The Company has challenged the validity the VirnetX Patents the . Patent and Trademark Office (the “PTO”). response, the PTO has declared the VirnetX Patents invalid. VirnetX appealed the invalidity decision the PTO the Federal Circuit. The Federal Circuit consolidated the Company’ appeal the Eastern Texas District Court VirnetX verdict and VirnetX’ appeals from the PTO invalidity proceedings. January , , the Federal Circuit affirmed the VirnetX verdict, which the Company intends further appeal. July , , the Federal Circuit remanded one VirnetX’ two appeals the PTO’ invalidity decisions back the PTO for further proceedings. August , , the Federal Circuit affirmed- -part, vacated- -part, and remanded back the PTO portions VirnetX’ second appeal. The Company has accrued its best estimate for the ultimate resolution these matters. Apple Inc. | Form - | Qualcomm January , , the Company filed lawsuit against Qualcomm Incorporated and affiliated parties (“Qualcomm”) the . District Court for the Southern District California seeking, among other things, enjoin Qualcomm from requiring the Company pay royalties the rate demanded Qualcomm. Qualcomm-related royalty payments had been remitted the Company its contract manufacturers since the beginning the second quarter . Following the Company’ lawsuit, Qualcomm filed patent infringement suits against the Company and its affiliates the . and various international jurisdictions, some which sought enjoin the sale certain the Company’ products particular countries. April , , the Company and Qualcomm reached settlement agreement dismiss all litigation between the two companies worldwide. The companies also reached multi-year license agreement and multi-year supply agreement. Under the terms the settlement agreement, Apple made payment Qualcomm , among other things, resolve disputes over the withheld royalty payments. iOS Performance Management Cases Various civil litigation matters have been filed state and federal courts the . and various international jurisdictions alleging violation consumer protection laws, fraud, computer intrusion and other causes action related the Company’ performance management feature used its iPhone operating systems, introduced certain iPhones iOS updates and . The claims seek monetary damages and other non-monetary relief. April , , several . federal actions were consolidated through Multidistrict Litigation process into single action the . District Court for the Northern District California. addition civil litigation, the Company also responding governmental investigations and requests for information relating the performance management feature. The Company believes that its iPhones were not defective, that the performance management feature introduced with iOS updates and was intended , and did, improve customers’ user experience, and that the Company did not make any misleading statements fail disclose any material information. The Company has accrued its best estimate for the ultimate resolution these matters. French Competition Authority June , the French Competition Authority (“FCA”) issued report alleging that aspects the Company’ sales and distribution practices France violate French competition law. The Company vigorously disagrees with the allegations, and hearing arguments was held before the FCA October , . The Company awaiting the decision the FCA, which may include fine. Note – Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company reports segment information based the “management” approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company’ reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company’ reportable segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company’ other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one managed separately better align with the location the Company’ customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. The accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , “Summary Significant Accounting Policies.” The Company evaluates the performance its reportable segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location customers and sales through the Company’ retail stores located those geographic locations. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Advertising expenses are generally included the geographic segment which the expenditures are incurred. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses managed outside the reportable segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses such research and development, corporate marketing expenses, certain share-based compensation expenses, income taxes, various nonrecurring charges and other separately managed general and administrative costs. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table shows information reportable segment for , and ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Greater China: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Japan: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Rest Asia Pacific: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , reconciliation the Company’ segment operating income the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and follows ( millions): Segment operating income $ , $ , $ , Research and development expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other corporate expenses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , The . and China were the only countries that accounted for more than % the Company’ net sales , and . There was single customer that accounted for more than % net sales , and . Net sales for , and and long-lived assets September , and September , were follows ( millions): Net sales: . $ , $ , $ , China ( ) , , , Other countries , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Long-lived assets: . $ , $ , China ( ) , , Other countries , , Total long-lived assets $ , $ , ( ) China includes Hong Kong and Taiwan. Long-lived assets located China consist primarily product tooling and manufacturing process equipment and assets related retail stores and related infrastructure. Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) The following tables show summary the Company’ quarterly financial information for each the four quarters and ( millions, except per share amounts): Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter : Total net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share ( ) : Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter : Total net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share ( ) : Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Apple Inc. | Form - | Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm the Shareholders and the Board Directors Apple Inc. Opinion the Financial Statements have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , and the related notes (collectively referred the “financial statements”). our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), Apple Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility Apple Inc.’ management. Our responsibility express opinion Apple Inc.’ financial statements based our audits. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect Apple Inc. accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the . Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement, whether due error fraud. Our audits included performing procedures assess the risks material misstatement the financial statements, whether due error fraud, and performing procedures that respond those risks. Such procedures included examining, test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall presentation the financial statements. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below matter arising from the current period audit the financial statements that was communicated required communicated the audit committee and that: ( ) relates accounts disclosures that are material the financial statements and ( ) involved our especially challenging, subjective, complex judgments. The communication the critical audit matter does not alter any way our opinion the financial statements, taken whole, and are not, communicating the critical audit matter below, providing separate opinion the critical audit matter the account disclosure which relates. European Commission State Aid Matter Uncertain Tax Position Description the Matter discussed Note the financial statements, the European Commission (“ ”) has announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid Apple Inc. providing tax opinions and concerning the tax allocation profits the Irish branches two subsidiaries Apple Inc. The decision ordered Ireland calculate and recover additional taxes from Apple Inc. for the period from June through December . The adjusted amount indicated the recovered € billion, plus interest. Auditing management’ evaluation the uncertain tax position stemming from the effects the decision complex and highly judgmental due the inherent uncertainty predicting the ultimate resolution the matter. Apple Inc. | Form - | How Addressed the Matter Our Audit tested controls over the risk material misstatement relating the evaluation the state aid matter, including management’ evaluation the advice legal counsel, the assessment whether Apple Inc.’ position more likely than not sustained and the development the related disclosure. evaluate Apple Inc.’ assessment whether sustainment its position more likely than not outcome, including underlying assumptions, our audit procedures included, among others, reading the August ruling and available correspondence between Apple Inc. and the , and the and Ireland. also requested and received internal and external legal counsel confirmation letters, discussed the allegations with internal and external legal counsel and Apple Inc. tax personnel and obtained representation letter from Apple Inc. involved our and tax subject matter resources considering the applicable tax laws, the pending appeal, the current status legal precedent relevant that appeal and the proceedings the court hearing September . addition, evaluated Apple Inc.’ disclosure included Note relation this matter. / / Ernst & Young LLP have served Apple Inc.’ auditor since . San Jose, California October , Apple Inc. | Form - | Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm the Shareholders and the Board Directors Apple Inc. Opinion Internal Control Over Financial Reporting have audited Apple Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (the “COSO criteria”). our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), the consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , and the related notes and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion Apple Inc.’ management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management’ Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion Apple Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting based our audit. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect Apple Inc. accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the . Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations Internal Control Over Financial Reporting company’ internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company’ management, the Company’ principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company’ disclosure controls and procedures defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Exchange Act were effective September , provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the SEC rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company’ management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations over Internal Controls The Company’ internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The Company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company’ assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP, and that the Company’ receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company’ management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company’ Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company’ internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management’ Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting The Company’ management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted assessment the effectiveness the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework). Based the Company’ assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective September , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP. The Company’ independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report the Company’ internal control over financial reporting, which appears Part , Item this Form - . Changes Internal Control over Financial Reporting There were changes the Company’ internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter , which were identified connection with management’ evaluation required paragraph ( ) Rules 13a- and 15d- under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company’ internal control over financial reporting. ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information None. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this Item set forth under the headings “Corporate Governance,” “Directors,” “Executive Officers” and “Other Information—Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , connection with the solicitation proxies for the Company’ annual meeting shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this Item set forth under the heading “Executive Compensation,” under the subheadings “Board Oversight Risk Management” and “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” under the heading “Corporate Governance” and under the subheadings “Compensation Directors” and “Director Compensation— ” under the heading “Directors” the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this Item set forth under the headings “Other Information—Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Other Information—Equity Compensation Plan Information” the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this Item set forth under the subheadings “Board Committees”, “Review, Approval, Ratification Transactions with Related Persons” and “Transactions with Related Persons” under the heading “Corporate Governance” the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accounting Fees and Services The information required this Item set forth under the subheadings “Fees Paid Auditors” and “Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” under the proposal “Ratification Appointment Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , , and incorporated herein reference. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) Documents filed part this report ( ) All financial statements Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page ( ) Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included this Form - . ( ) Exhibits required Item Regulation - ( ) Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date - - ** - - - - - - - Apple Inc. | Form - | Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - Apple Inc. | Form - | Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - *, ** *, ** ** ** ** ** ** *** ** Inline XBRL Document Set for the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes Part , Item , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” this Annual Report Form - . ** Inline XBRL for the cover page this Annual Report Form - , included the Exhibit Inline XBRL Document Set. * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ** Filed herewith. *** Furnished herewith. ( ) Certain instruments defining the rights holders long-term debt securities the Registrant are omitted pursuant Item ( )( )(iii) Regulation - . The Registrant hereby undertakes furnish the SEC, upon request, copies any such instruments. ', 'item 16. ': 'Form - Summary None. Apple Inc. | Form - | '}