{'item 1. ': 'Business.................................................... Item . Properties.................................................. Item . Legal Proceedings........................................... Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders......... PART Item . Market for the Registrant\' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters......................................... Item . Selected Consolidated Financial Data........................ Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations................................... Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk... Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data................. Item . Changes and Disagreements With Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure.................................... PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant.......... Item . Executive Compensation...................................... Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.................................................. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.............. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ......................................................... Signatures............................................................ PART ITEM . BUSINESS This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based current expectations, estimates and projections. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Forward-Looking Statements." GENERAL Amazon com, Inc. the world\' leading online retailer. have served over million customer accounts over countries. directly offer for sale millions distinct items categories such books, music, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement products. Through our marketplace services such Amazon com Auctions, zShops and sothebys amazon com, have created Web-based marketplaces where buyers and sellers can enter into transactions with respect wide range products. addition our Web site, currently have two internationally focused Web sites located www amazon and www amazon . have also invested and developed strategic commercial relationships with number selected -commerce companies. offer our customers superior shopping experience providing high value through selection, convenience, ease use, low prices, product information and intense focus customer service. are proven technology leader, having developed electronic commerce innovations such -Click technology, personalized shopping services, easy- -use search and browse features, secure payment protections and wireless access our stores. , significantly expanded our distribution capabilities worldwide with the addition eight new distribution centers comprising approximately four million square feet warehouse and distribution space. These new facilities increase our control over the distribution process and facilitate our ability deliver merchandise customers reliable and timely basis. Amazon com principally organized into three operating segments. The Books, Music and DVD/ video segment consists the Company\' online stores for books, music and DVD video. The Early-Stage Businesses and Other segment consists the Company\' online stores for electronics, software, video games, toys and home improvement products, marketplace services, and the Amazon com Commerce Network. The International segment consists all operations Germany and the . See Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated reference Item Part for additional information regarding our segments. Information contained the Company\' Web sites not part this Annual Report Form - . Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated Delaware. The Company\' principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. Amazon com completed its initial public offering May , and its common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." used herein, "Amazon com" includes Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. BUSINESS STRATEGY Amazon com seeks the world\' most customer-centric company where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy online. intend leverage our Internet platform expand the range products and services offered our customers. This platform consists strong brand recognition, large and growing customer base, innovative technology, extensive and sophisticated distribution capabilities and significant -commerce expertise. believe that this platform allows launch new -commerce businesses quickly, with high quality customer experience, economical incremental cost and good prospects for success. also believe that this platform allows expand the range products and services offered our customers through relationships with strategic partners terms that are attractive our customers, our strategic partners and . PRODUCTS AND SERVICES General Since our inception July , have rapidly expanded our product and service offerings and intend continue . Some our product and service offerings and their related launch dates are set forth below: PRODUCTS AND INTERNATIONAL PRODUCTS MARKETPLACE SERVICES LAUNCH DATE AND MARKETPLACE SERVICES LAUNCH DATE -------------------- ----------- ------------------------ ----------- Books July and German Books October Music June and German Music October DVD Video November and German Auctions November Auctions March and German zShops November Electronics July and German DVD Video March Toys July zShops October Home Improvement November Software November Video Games November sothebys amazon com November the past, have offered our products and services primarily through our online retail stores. March , introduced Amazon com Auctions, the first our marketplace services, which now also include sothebys amazon com and zShops. have recently entered into agreements expand the products and services offer allowing selected strategic partners sell products and services under -branded sections the Amazon com Web site. refer these new arrangements the Amazon com Commerce Network. Some the products and services sold through the Amazon com Commerce Network are described below under "Strategic Relationships." Our online retail stores currently consist books, music, DVD video, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement. With the exception books, which launched , and music and DVD video, which launched , launched all our online stores . anticipate new online store additions and beyond. Books, Music and DVD Video Segment. are the Internet\' number one books, number one music and number one DVD video retailer based upon our revenues. currently offer aggregate over million titles books, music and DVD video ( used herein, "titles" offered means the number items offered our catalogs). The Books, Music and DVD video segment had sales $ billion, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. During , continued enhance our Book Store expanding selection and improving the customer experience. created new specialty stores such our professional and technical store, expanded our editorial content through partnerships with experts certain fields and increased selection with the addition millions used and out- -print titles. During , our Music Store launched improved classical musical store, enhanced its product recommendation services and added new features promote independent artists via Amazon com Advantage. Amazon com became the first major online music retailer dedicate area its store free, full-length song downloads from established artists and major-label performers. Our DVD video Store enjoyed strong revenue growth . addition, our DVD video Store continued its integration with our Internet Movie Database (IMDb) Web site, leading online information source for movie enthusiasts, created and hosted the official Web site for "American Beauty," winner three Golden Globe( ) awards, and began streaming exclusive outtake footage from motion pictures such "The Blair Witch Project" and "Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged ." Early-Stage Businesses and Other Segment Other Retail. Amazon com\' other online retail stores consist electronics, software, video games, toys and home improvement. Marketplace Services. Amazon com\' marketplace services currently consist Amazon com Auctions, zShops and sothebys amazon com. Amazon com Auctions allows buyers and sellers conduct transactions with respect wide variety products easy use auction format. Amazon com zShops allows individuals and businesses offer popular well hard- -find items Amazon com\' customers. sothebys amazon com online auction site devoted art, antiques and collectibles. During the fourth quarter , these marketplace services surpassed combined million registered users and million listings. Since its launch November , sothebys amazon com has achieved average close rates, which are rates actual purchases customers bidding the site, excess % and average auction closing prices over $ . The participants our marketplace services can use our Amazon com Payments service, which allows individuals and small businesses accept credit card payments through Amazon com\' -Click payment feature, thus eliminating the problems associated with checks and money orders. Amazon com Commerce Network. have recently entered into agreements allow selected strategic partners promote their products and services our customers. These strategic partners are part the Amazon com Commerce Network and currently consist Greenlight com, online source for auto purchasing partnership with local dealerships; living com, online retailer home products and services; drugstore com, online retail and information source for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy; Audible, which delivers spoken audio over the Internet; Ashford com, online retailer luxury and premium products; and NextCard, Inc., online issuer consumer credit cards. believe that these arrangements will attractive Amazon com customers result the increase product and service selection available our site, our strategic partners result the potential growth their customer base and brand awareness, and result our ability offer customers expanded set products and services and the financial benefits receive. Revenue for the Early-Stage Businesses and Other segment was $ million. Amazon com had revenue from this segment previous years. International Segment. have two internationally focused Web sites located www amazon and www amazon . Each amazon and amazon was ranked the number one most visited -commerce site and the number most visited site overall the and Germany, respectively, according the Media Metrix ratings for Europe released January . Both these sites were launched October and currently have product and service offerings principally consisting books, music, DVD video, auctions and zShops. These international sites have the same look, feel and functionality the Web site, including -Click technology, personalized recommendations and product reviews, but offer content, products and services tailored the local market. The amazon Web site presented the German language. currently have distribution centers and customer service centers the and Germany. intend expand the product and service offerings these Web sites the future. Revenue for the International segment was $ million and $ million and , respectively. Amazon com had revenue for this segment . AMAZON COM WEB SITES The key features Amazon com\' Web sites include browsing, searching, useful product information, reviews, recommendations and personalization, broad selection, low prices, -Click technology, secure payment systems and availability and fulfillment. Our Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat purchases providing inviting and satisfying experience that encourages customers return frequently and interact with other customers. Browsing. The Amazon com sites offer visitors variety highlighted subject areas, styles and special features arranged simple, easy- -use fashion intended enhance product search and selection. addition, the Web sites present variety products and services and topical information. enhance the customers\' shopping experience and increase sales, feature variety products and services rotating basis throughout the stores. Searching. primary feature Amazon com Web sites their interactive, searchable catalogs millions books, music products, DVD videos, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement products. provide variety search tools find desired products based numerous search criteria. license some our catalog and other information from third parties. Reviews and Content. The Amazon com online stores offer numerous forms content enhance the customer\' shopping experience and encourage purchases. Various types content are available for particular titles, including cover art, synopses, annotations, reviews editorial staff and other customers, and interviews authors and artists. Recommendations and Personalization. Personalization features include greeting customers name, instant and personalized recommendations, personal notification services, and number other related features. Amazon com\' Wish List feature allows users create online wish list desired products and services that others can reference for gift-giving purposes. believe that personalization customer\' shopping experience our Web sites important element the value proposition offer customers, and intend continue enhance our personalized services. Other Web Site Services. The Amazon com Web sites provide other services make online shopping more enjoyable for our customers. our Gift Ideas section, feature seasonally appropriate selection gift ideas and services. our Community section, provide gathering place where customers can share product information and recommendations. Through our -Cards section, customers can send free animated electronic greeting cards friends and family. -Click Technology. Amazon com provides customers with streamlined ordering process using -Click technology. customer has previously activated -Click functionality, that customer can place order clicking one button without having fill out order form. The customer\' shipping and billing information automatically referenced our secure server. Secure Credit Card Payment. Amazon com seeks keep its customers\' information secure. Amazon com secure server software encrypts customers\' personal information, including credit card number, name and address, protect against interception the information travels over the Internet. Availability and Fulfillment. Many our products are available for shipment within hours, although some products take longer and some may not available all. Customers can select from variety delivery options, including overnight and various international shipping options, well gift-wrapping services. use -mail notify customers order status under various conditions and provide links shipping carriers that customers can track their shipments. seek provide rapid and reliable fulfillment customer orders and continue improve our speed availability and fulfillment. Remote Access. October , launched Amazon com Anywhere which allows Amazon com customers access the Amazon com site from hand-held wireless devices, such cellular phones and the Palm VII Connected Organizer, and utilize features such -Click purchasing and product-searching capabilities their wireless devices. Return Policy. For the days following receipt customer order, Amazon com provides full refund for any book its original condition, any Amazon com recommended book any condition, any unopened music , DVD video tape software, and any other merchandise item new condition, with its original packaging and accessories. STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS have entered into number strategic relationships with selected -commerce companies. These relationships have generally consisted our making, having the future right make, minority investment the companies and the entry into commercial agreements which vary scope from customer advertising activities and links recently announced deals involving the sale products and services -branded sections the Amazon com Web site. case exercise control over the investee. Certain our strategic relationships are listed below: COMPANY NATURE BUSINESS ------- ------------------ Ashford com.................... Online retailer luxury and premium products Audible........................ Internet-delivered spoken audio for -based listening playback devices Della com...................... Online service for gift registry, gift advice and personalized gift suggestions drugstore com.................. Online retail and information source for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy Gear com....................... Online source for brand-name sporting goods discount prices Greenlight com................. Online auto purchasing partnership with local dealerships HomeGrocer com................. Online grocery-shopping and home-delivery service Kozmo com...................... Online one-hour delivery service for entertainment and convenience products living com..................... Online retailer home products and services NextCard, Inc.................. Online issuer consumer credit cards Pets com....................... Online source for pet products, information and services Sothebys....................... Auction house cooperation with which maintain online auction site devoted art, antiques and collectibles believe that these investments and commercial arrangements are attractive for variety reasons. First, our customers receive access wider range products and services. Second, are able generate revenue from the strategic partners because help them sell the Amazon com customer base. Third, have the opportunity participate the future success our strategic partners result our ownership interest such companies. believe that our strategic partners are also well served result the opportunity grow their customer base quickly and build brand recognition. MARKETING AND PROMOTION Amazon com\' marketing strategy designed strengthen the Amazon com brand name, increase customer traffic the Amazon com Web sites, build customer loyalty, encourage repeat purchases and develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities. Amazon com creatively applies technology deliver personalized programs and services, well flexible merchandising. employ variety media, business development and promotional methods achieve these goals. also benefit from public relations activities well online and traditional advertising, including radio, television and print media. extend our market presence through our Associates Program, which enables associated Web sites make products available their audiences with order fulfillment Amazon com. February , , approximately , Web sites have enrolled the Associates Program. CUSTOMER SERVICE believe that our ability establish and maintain long-term relationships with our customers and encourage repeat visits and purchases depends, part, the strength our customer service operations. seek achieve frequent communication with and feedback from our customers continually improve the Amazon com experience. Users can contact customer service representatives via telephone and -mail hours day, days week. have automated certain tools used our customer service staff and have plans for further enhancements. December , , had customer service personnel working five customer service centers located Seattle and Tacoma, Washington; Slough, England; Regensburg, Germany; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. plan open additional customer service centers Huntington, West Virginia and The Hague, Netherlands . WAREHOUSING, INVENTORY, FULFILLMENT AND DISTRIBUTION significantly expanded our distribution infrastructure with the addition new distribution facilities Fernley, Nevada; Coffeyville, Kansas; Campbellsville, Kentucky; Lexington, Kentucky; McDonough, Georgia; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. also opened two new international distribution centers, one the and one Germany. aggregate basis, these eight new distribution centers comprised approximately four million square feet warehouse space. The geographic coverage these distribution centers and their capacity have dramatically improved our fulfillment capabilities and will allow continue increase our volume. The new distribution centers also give more control over the distribution process and facilitate our ability deliver merchandise customers reliable and timely basis. now have total distribution centers, including our facilities Seattle, Washington, and New Castle, Delaware. purchase products from network manufacturers, distributors, publishers and labels. For orders books, music, DVD video, software, video games and certain home improvement products that cannot filled from our inventory, our proprietary software selects the orders that can filled via electronic interfaces with vendors and, some cases, forwards the remaining orders our special orders group. This special orders group has developed customized information systems and consists trained ordering personnel who specialize hard- -find products. Under our arrangements with certain distributors, electronically ordered products often are shipped the distributor within hours receipt order from . With the addition new distribution centers and product lines, are required carry increased levels inventory order able meet customer demand and ship products customers timely basis. SEASONALITY Both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally declines during the summer. Sales the traditional retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics, software, video games and home improvement industries usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. The fourth quarter seasonal impact may even more pronounced our toys and electronics businesses. TECHNOLOGY have implemented numerous Web site management, search, customer interaction, recommendation, transaction-processing and fulfillment services and systems using combination our own proprietary technologies and commercially available, licensed technologies. Our current strategy focus our development efforts creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique our business and license acquire commercially developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. use set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory customer orders and ensuring proper shipment products customers based various ordering criteria. Our transaction-processing systems handle millions items, number different status inquiries, gift-wrapping requests and multiple shipment methods and allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing and charging customer credit cards. Amazon com Web sites also incorporate variety search and database tools. Systems administrators and network managers monitor and operate our Web sites, network operations and transaction-processing systems. The continued uninterrupted operation our Web sites and transaction-processing systems essential our business, and our Web site operations staff works make the sites reliable possible. use the services three Internet service providers obtain connectivity the Internet, both domestically and internationally, over multiple dedicated lines. COMPETITION The online commerce market new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics, software, video game and home improvement industries are intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include ( ) online vendors books, music, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics, software, video games, home improvement products and other products, ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines, that are involved online commerce, either directly collaboration with other retailers, ( ) online auction services, ( ) Web-based retailers using alternative distribution capabilities and ( ) publishers, distributors, manufacturers and physical-world retailers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order direct marketing. believe that the principal competitive factors our market include brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other Web site content, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use and our ability adapt changing conditions. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. may not able compete successfully against these and future competitors. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company regards its trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical its success, and relies trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with its employees, customers, partners and others protect its proprietary rights. The Company has been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents and copyrights and foreign governmental authorities. The Company also has applied for the registration other trademarks, service marks, copyrights and patents the and internationally. addition, the Company has filed and international patent applications covering certain its proprietary technology. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which the Company\' products and services are made available online. The Company has licensed the past, and expects that may license the future, certain its proprietary rights, such trademarks, patents, technology copyrighted material, third parties. EMPLOYEES December , , the Company employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees. The Company also employs independent contractors and temporary personnel. None the Company\' employees represented labor union, and the Company considers its employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel the Company\' industry intense, particularly for software development and other technical staff. The Company believes that its future success will depend part its continued ability attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could materially adversely affected. HAVE LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY UPON WHICH YOU CAN EVALUATE OUR BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS incorporated July and began offering products for sale our Web site July . Accordingly, have relatively short operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. You should consider our prospects light the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered online commerce companies. online commerce company, have rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model, face intense competition, must effectively manage our growth, and must respond quickly rapid changes customer demands and industry standards. may not succeed addressing these challenges and risks. HAVE ACCUMULATED DEFICIT AND ANTICIPATE FURTHER LOSSES have incurred significant losses since began doing business. December , , had accumulated deficit $ million. are incurring substantial operating losses and may continue incur such losses for the foreseeable future. These losses may significantly higher than our current losses. succeed, must invest heavily marketing and promotion and developing our product offerings and technology and operating infrastructure. addition, the expenses associated with our recent and future acquisitions and investments and interest expense related our outstanding notes will adversely affect our operating results. Our aggressive pricing programs have resulted relatively low product gross margins, need generate and sustain substantially higher revenues order become profitable. Our historical growth rates are not sustainable and our percentage growth rate will decrease the future. OUR SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT INDEBTEDNESS COULD AFFECT OUR BUSINESS have significant indebtedness. December , , had indebtedness under senior discount notes, convertible subordinated notes, capitalized lease obligations and other asset financing totaling approximately $ billion. With the sale our Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities( ), also known PEACS, February , incurred additional debt approximately $ million. may incur substantial additional debt the future. Our indebtedness could: - make difficult make principal and interest payments our debt, - make difficult obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements other purposes the future, - limit our flexibility planning for, reacting , changes our business and competition, and - make more difficult for react the event economic downturn. may not able meet our debt service obligations. our cash flow inadequate meet our obligations, may face substantial liquidity problems. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with other covenants our indebtedness, will default. This would permit our creditors accelerate the maturity our indebtedness. addition, the PEACS are denominated euros, not dollars, and the exchange ratio between the euro and the dollar not fixed the indenture governing the PEACS. Therefore, fluctuations the euro dollar exchange ratio may adversely affect , including potentially triggering certain reset provisions the PEACS that would lower the conversion price. CANNOT ACCURATELY FORECAST REVENUES OUR BUSINESS. MAY EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS. OUR BUSINESS SUBJECT SEASONAL FLUCTUATION. FUTURE FLUCTUATIONS OPERATING RESULTS REVENUE SHORTFALLS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SUCCESS Due our limited operating history and the unpredictability our industry, cannot accurately forecast our revenues. base our current and future expense levels our investment plans and estimates future revenues. Our expenses are large extent fixed. may not able adjust our spending quickly our revenues fall short our expectations. Further, may make pricing, purchasing, service, marketing, acquisition, investment financing decisions that could adversely affect our business results. Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate for many reasons, including: - our ability retain existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers\' demands, - our ability acquire merchandise, manage our inventory and fulfill orders, - changes gross margins our current and future products, services and markets, - our ability introduce, and the timing introductions and our competitors , popular books, music selections, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics products, software, video games, home improvement products and other products services, and our ability properly anticipate demand, - purchases large quantities toys, electronics products, software, video games, home improvement products and other products, particularly advance the holidays, for which demand may not materialize, - introduction our new Web sites, services and products those competitors, - termination Web sites, service offerings and product sales that determine are not viable, - changes usage the Internet and online services and consumer acceptance the Internet and online commerce, - timing upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure, - the level traffic our Web sites, - the effects acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability successfully integrate those acquisitions and business combinations, - technical difficulties, system downtime Internet brownouts, - the mix books, music products, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics products, software, video games, home improvement products and other products sell, - the mix revenues derived from products compared services, - our inability prevent fraud perpetrated third parties through credit card transactions, Amazon com Payments transactions, and auction and zShops transactions, - our level merchandise and vendor returns, and - disruptions service common shipping carriers due strikes otherwise. Both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally declines during the summer. Sales the traditional retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics and home improvement industries usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. The fourth quarter seasonal impact may even more pronounced our toys, electronics and video games businesses. For these reasons, you should not rely period- -period comparisons our financial results forecast our future performance. Our future operating results may fall below the expectations securities analysts investors, which would likely cause the trading price our common stock decline. COULD LOSE SUBSTANTIAL MARKET SHARE NOT KEEP WITH THE INTENSE COMPETITION THE ONLINE COMMERCE MARKET The online commerce market new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics, software, video game and home improvement industries are intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include: - online vendors books, music, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics, software, video games, home improvement products, and other products, - number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines, that are involved online commerce, either directly collaboration with other retailers, - online auction services, - Web-based retailers using alternative distribution capabilities, and - publishers, distributors, manufacturers and physical-world retailers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order direct marketing. believe that the principal competitive factors our market include brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other Web site content, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use and our ability adapt changing conditions. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing inventory policies. They also can devote more resources technology development and marketing than can. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Competition the Internet and online commerce markets will intensify. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may use their market power expand into the markets which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies may increase the competitive pressures online retailers. The nature the Internet electronic marketplace may facilitate competitive entry and comparison shopping and render inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. For example, "shopping agent" technologies permit customers quickly compare our prices with those our competitors. This increased competition may reduce our operating margins, diminish our market share impair the value our brand. MAY EXPERIENCE SYSTEM INTERRUPTIONS, WHICH AFFECT THE VOLUME ORDERS FULFILL AND THEREFORE OUR REVENUES, AND MAY AFFECT OUR BRAND NAME, AND OUR SYSTEMS ARE NOT FULLY INTEGRATED AND ARE NOT REDUNDANT Customer access our Web sites directly affects the volume orders fulfill and thus affects our revenues. experience occasional system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. These interruptions will continue. need add additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and network infrastructure accommodate both increased traffic our Web sites and increased sales volume and fully integrate our systems. Without these upgrades, may face additional system interruptions, slower response times, diminished customer service, impaired quality and speed order fulfillment and delays our financial reporting. cannot accurately project the rate timing any increases traffic sales volume our Web sites and, therefore, the integration and timing these upgrades are uncertain. addition, our inventory management systems are not fully integrated with our financial reporting systems, and significant amount manual effort may necessary reconcile our inventory and other financial accounts. maintain substantially all our computer and communications hardware single leased facility Seattle, Washington. Our systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. not have backup systems formal disaster recovery plan, and may not have sufficient business interruption insurance compensate for losses from major interruption. Computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins and similar disruptions could cause system interruptions, delays and loss critical data and could significantly diminish our reputation and brand name and prevent from providing services and accepting and fulfilling customer orders. OUR PLANNED GROWTH WILL CONTINUE PLACE SIGNIFICANT STRAIN OUR MANAGEMENT, OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will further expand our operations address potential growth our product and service offerings and customer base. This expansion will continue place significant strain our management, operational and financial resources. need successfully execute our expansion our distribution centers and customer service centers and continue improve our transaction-processing and operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. also need expand, train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel successfully identify, manage and exploit market opportunities, which may limit our growth. FACE SIGNIFICANT INVENTORY RISK ARISING OUT CHANGES CONSUMER DEMAND AND PRODUCT CYCLES. FACE ADDITIONAL INVENTORY RISKS BECAUSE OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ARE NOT WELL INTEGRATED AND BECAUSE CERTAIN OUR OPERATIONAL PROCESSES ARE MANUAL are exposed significant inventory risks result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and changes consumer tastes with respect our products. order successful, must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking understocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling new product, particularly difficult forecast product demand accurately. These issues are particularly pronounced with respect our inventory products that are based current trends, like toys. failure optimize inventory will harm our shipping margins requiring make partial shipments from one more locations. may also exposed inventory risk are unable negotiate satisfactory terms and conditions with our manufacturers, distributors and other suppliers. The acquisition certain types inventory, inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and pre-payment, and such inventory may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels products, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. are also exposed significant inventory risks because our inventory forecasting, purchasing, receiving, reconciliation, accounting and payment systems are not well developed and are not well integrated. The lack systems integration makes difficult and manual process receive inventory, reconcile inventory invoices purchase orders, account for inventory efficiently, request refunds from suppliers and pay supplier invoices. addition, certain manual operational processes further complicate our ability manage inventory efficiently. Any one the factors set forth above may require mark-down write-off inventory. Substantial inventory mark-downs write-offs will decrease gross margins. the fourth quarter , incurred inventory-related charges which significantly decreased our gross margins. ENTERING NEW BUSINESS AREAS WILL REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT EXPENSE AND COULD STRAIN MANAGEMENT, FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RESOURCES intend expand our operations promoting new complementary products, services sales formats and expanding our product service offerings. This will require significant additional expense and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. cannot expect benefit these new markets from the first- -market advantage that experienced the online book market. Our gross margins these new business areas may lower than our existing business activities. addition, may have limited experience these new business areas. may not able expand our operations cost-effective timely manner. Any new business that our customers not receive favorably could damage our reputation and brand name. NOT SUCCESSFULLY EXPAND AND OPERATE OUR DISTRIBUTION CENTERS, OUR BUSINESS COULD HARMED not successfully expand our distribution operations accommodate peak volumes, our distribution centers fail operate properly, could significantly limit our ability meet customer demand. During the fiscal year ended December , , added distribution centers Nevada, Georgia, Kentucky, Kansas, North Dakota, Germany and the . Most these distribution centers are will highly automated, and have had limited experience with automated distribution centers. The two distribution centers operated prior , Washington and Delaware, are manually operated. are not experienced coordinating and managing distribution operations geographically distant locations. Because difficult predict sales increases and lead times for developing distribution centers are long, may over-expand our facilities, which may result excess inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. also need retain flexibility within our distribution and logistics network, including the ability manage the operational challenges shipping non-uniform and heavy products part the fulfillment toy, electronics, home improvement and other product orders. THE DISPROPORTIONATE AMOUNT OUR NET SALES THAT EXPECT REALIZE DURING THE FOURTH QUARTER OUR FISCAL YEAR PLACES SIGNIFICANT STRAIN OUR BUSINESS Because expect disproportionate amount our net sales realized during the holiday season the fourth quarter our fiscal year, face significant risks the fourth quarter. may fail accurately predict the optimal inventory levels our distribution centers for the fourth quarter. not stock popular products sufficient amounts during the fourth quarter and fail meet customer demand, could significantly impact our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory mark-downs write-offs, which could reduce gross margins. the fourth quarter , incurred inventory-related charges, which significantly decreased our gross margins. failure optimize inventory our distribution centers will harm our shipping margins requiring make partial shipments from one more locations. addition, may experience decline our shipping margins due complimentary upgrades and split-shipments necessary ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. too many customers access our Web sites within short period time due increased holiday demand, may experience system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services, and may also harm our brand. addition, may unable adequately staff our distribution and customer service centers during these peak periods. Finally, our new automated distribution centers may fail operate properly, which will interfere with our ability meet customer demand. MAY NOT SUCCESSFUL OUR EFFORTS EXPAND INTO INTERNATIONAL MARKETS plan expand our presence international markets. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing and distributing products services for these markets and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. will costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally, and develop localized Web sites and stores and other systems. may not succeed our efforts these countries. Our revenues from international activities may not offset the expense establishing and maintaining foreign operations and therefore may never profitable. Our international sales and operations are subject number risks inherent selling and operating abroad, including, but not limited , risks with respect : - currency exchange rate fluctuations, - local economic and political conditions, - disruptions capital and trading markets, - restrictive governmental actions (such restrictions transfer funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs), - changes legal regulatory requirements, - import export licensing requirements, - limitations the repatriation funds, - difficulty obtaining distribution and support, - nationalization, - laws and policies the affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and - tax and other laws. the international online commerce market continues grow, competition this market will likely intensify. may have compete with local companies who understand the local markets better than and who have better local brand name recognition than . addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate the Internet other online services such areas content, privacy, network security, encryption distribution. This may affect our ability conduct business internationally. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth international markets. OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER ARE UNSUCCESSFUL MAKING AND INTEGRATING BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND STRATEGIC ALLIANCES plan continue expand our operations and market presence entering into business combinations, investments, joint ventures other strategic alliances with other companies. These transactions create risks such : - difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel combined companies, - disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses and other market developments, - problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel, - expenses associated with amortization goodwill and other purchased intangible assets, - additional operating losses and expenses acquired businesses, - impairment relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners, and - losses that may arise from our equity investments. may not succeed addressing these risks. part our business strategy, intend increase the number our strategic investments and alliances with online commerce businesses and other companies pursuant which they pay licensing other fees, such fees establish -branded stores our Web sites participate our auction zShops services. While believe these arrangements will have positive impact our results operations, particularly our gross margins, this strategy may not successful and these transactions create additional risk. For example, for strategic alliances where create -branded store our Web site, may experience difficulty integrating the other company\' systems create seamless customer experience, the other company may unable pay amounts owed the future and may suffer harm our brand the other company fails meet our standards for customer service, Web site performance and privacy, which would decrease customer satisfaction with our Web sites. addition, because often take portion our fees for establishing -branded store shares capital stock the other company, may never realize the full value that portion the fee. may not able make business combinations and strategic investments that are acceptable . not, our gross margins may not improve and may even deteriorate. addition, the businesses have acquired, and the future may acquire, may incur operating losses. MAY NOT ABLE ADAPT QUICKLY ENOUGH CHANGING CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS AND INDUSTRY STANDARDS Technology the online commerce industry changes rapidly. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology obsolete. succeed, must enhance our Web site responsiveness, functionality and features, acquire and license leading technologies, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technology and respond technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices cost-effective and timely basis. THE LOSS OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our chief executive officer and chairman the board. not have "key person" life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. RELY SMALL NUMBER SUPPLIERS; OUR BUSINESS WOULD HARMED OUR CURRENT SUPPLIERS STOP SELLING MERCHANDISE ACCEPTABLE TERMS Although increased our direct purchasing from manufacturers during , approximately % all our purchases during were from three major vendors, Ingram Book Group, Baker & Taylor, Inc. and Valley Media, Inc., from which purchase book, music, DVD and video titles. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. Our current vendors may stop selling merchandise acceptable terms. may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. MAY NOT ABLE ACQUIRE MAINTAIN APPROPRIATE DOMAIN NAMES hold rights various Web domain names, including "Amazon com," "Amazon ," "Amazon " and "zShops com." Governmental agencies typically regulate domain names. These regulations are subject change. may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. THE LONG-TERM VIABILITY THE INTERNET MEDIUM FOR COMMERCE NOT CERTAIN Consumer use the Internet medium for commerce recent phenomenon and subject high level uncertainty. While the number Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough meet the increased levels demand. The increased use the Internet medium for commerce raises concerns regarding Internet security, reliability, pricing, accessibility and quality service. use the Internet does not continue grow, grows slower rate than anticipate, the necessary Internet infrastructure complementary services are not developed effectively support growth that may occur, our business would harmed. MAY SUBJECT PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS PEOPLE PROPERTY ARE HARMED THE PRODUCTS SELL enter new lines business, may increasingly sell products, such toys and home improvement products, that may increase our exposure product liability claims relating personal injury, death property damage caused such products, and that may require take actions such product recalls. maintain liability insurance, but cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our vendor agreements with our suppliers not indemnify from product liability. GOVERNMENT REGULATION INTERNET COMMERCE EVOLVING AND UNFAVORABLE CHANGES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS are subject general business regulations and laws regulations regarding taxation and access online commerce. These laws regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. Regulatory authorities may adopt specific laws and regulations governing the Internet online commerce. These regulations may cover taxation, user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, and characteristics and quality products and services. Changes consumer protection laws also may impose additional burdens companies conducting business online, both the and internationally. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply the Internet and online commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. addition, many states currently regulate "auctions" and "auctioneers" conducting auctions and may regulate online auction services. States may also regulate consumer- -consumer fixed price online markets, like zShops. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. COULD REQUIRED COLLECT TAXES THE PRODUCTS SELL accordance with current industry practice, not currently collect sales taxes other taxes with respect shipments goods into states other than Washington. addition, collect Value Added Tax, VAT, for products that are ordered www amazon and www amazon and shipped into European Union member countries. Our new distribution center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion those networks, along with other aspects our evolving business, may result additional sales and other tax obligations. One more states foreign countries may seek impose sales other tax collection obligations out- -jurisdiction companies which engage electronic commerce . successful assertion one more states foreign countries that should collect sales other taxes the sale merchandise could result substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business. Recent federal legislation limits the imposition state and local taxes Internet-related sales. , Congress passed the Internet Tax Freedom Act, which places three-year moratorium state and local taxes Internet access, unless such tax was already imposed prior October , , and discriminatory taxes electronic commerce. There possibility that Congress may not renew this legislation . Congress chooses not renew this legislation, state and local governments would free impose new taxes electronically purchased goods. The imposition taxes goods sold over the Internet state and local governments would create administrative burdens for and could reduce one competitive advantage that the purchase goods over the Internet now possesses. The European Commission currently evaluating its VAT position electronic commerce transactions. possible that future VAT legislation the European Union changes our business model may result additional VAT collection obligations and administrative burdens. COULD LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL FRAUDULENT ACTIVITIES USERS OUR AUCTION AND ZSHOPS SERVICES may unable prevent users our auction and zShops services from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods unlawful manner. may face civil criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities our auction and zShops users. Any costs incur result liability relating the sale unlawful goods, the unlawful sale goods, the fraudulent receipt goods the fraudulent collection payments could harm our business. running our auction and zShops services, rely sellers goods make accurate representations and provide reliable delivery and buyers pay the agreed purchase price. For our auction and zShops services, not take responsibility for delivery payment goods and while can suspend terminate the accounts users auctions zShops who fail fulfill their delivery obligations other users, cannot require users make payments deliver goods. not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded other users except through our guarantee program. Under the guarantee program, fraudulent activities our auction and zShops users, such the fraudulent receipt goods and the fraudulent collection payments, may create liability for . addition, are aware that governmental agencies are currently investigating the conduct online auctions. COULD LIABLE FOR BREACHES SECURITY OUR WEB SITE AND FRAUDULENT ACTIVITIES USERS OUR AMAZON COM PAYMENTS PROGRAM fundamental requirement for electronic commerce the secure transmission confidential information over public networks. Although have developed systems and processes prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure mitigate such fraud breaches may impact our financial results. The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. guarantee payments made through Amazon com Payments certain limits for both buyers and sellers, and may unable prevent users Amazon com Payments from fraudulently receiving goods when payment may not made seller fraudulently collecting payments when goods may not shipped buyer. Our liability risk will increase larger fraction our sellers use Amazon com Payments. Any costs incur result liability because our guarantee payments made through Amazon com Payments otherwise could harm our business. addition, the functionality Amazon com Payments depends certain third-party vendors delivering services. these vendors are unable unwilling provide services, Amazon com Payments will not viable (and our businesses that use Amazon com Payments may not viable). COULD SUBJECT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INFORMATION POSTED OUR WEB SITE THIRD PARTIES Our Web site features customer reviews the products sell and customer ratings sellers our auctions and zShops sites. Although these reviews and ratings are generated customers and not , possible that claim could made against for reviews and ratings posted our Web site. become liable for information posted our Web site customers, could harmed and may forced discontinue certain services. MAY NOT ABLE ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS MAY ACCUSED INFRINGING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS THIRD PARTIES regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others protect our proprietary rights. have been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents and copyrights and foreign governmental authorities. also have applied for the registration some other trademarks, service marks, copyrights and patents the and internationally. addition, have filed and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available online. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Third parties that license our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patented technology copyrighted material, may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. addition, the steps take protect our proprietary rights may not adequate and third parties may infringe misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that infringed their proprietary rights. have been subject claims, and expect continue subject legal proceedings and claims, regarding alleged infringement our licensors and the trademarks and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the imposition damages that must pay. may need obtain license from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such license may not available terms acceptable , all. CANNOT SURE THAT THE YEAR PROBLEM WILL NOT AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Thus far, have had significant problems related year issues associated with the computer systems, software, other property and equipment use. However, cannot guarantee that the year problem will not adversely affect our business, operating results financial condition some point the future. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Year Implications." OUR STOCK PRICE HIGHLY VOLATILE The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. For example, during the fiscal year ended December , ( adjusted for the -for- split our common stock January , and the -for- split our common stock September , ), the reported sale price our common stock the NASDAQ National Market was high $ and low $ per share. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : - quarterly variations operating results, - announcements innovations, - new products, services and strategic developments our competitors, business combinations and investments our competitors, - changes our operating expense levels losses, - changes financial estimates and recommendations securities analysts, - performance other online commerce companies, and - news reports relating trends the Internet, book, music, DVD video, toys, electronics, software, video game, home improvement products, auctions, consumer- -consumer fixed price online markets, other product service industries. Any these events may cause our stock price fall, which may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. addition, the stock market general and the market prices for Internet-related companies particular have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated such companies\' operating performance. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price our common stock regardless our operating performance. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS The following tables set forth certain information regarding the executive officers and Directors the Company March , : EXECUTIVE OFFICERS NAME AGE POSITION ---- --- -------- Jeffrey . Bezos............................ Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Joseph Galli, ............................ President and Chief Operating Officer Warren . Jenson............................ Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer John . Risher.............................. Senior Vice President and General Manager, Retail Group Diego Piacentini............................ Senior Vice President and General Manager, International Richard . Dalzell.......................... Vice President and Chief Information Officer Mark . Britto.............................. Vice President, Strategic Alliances Jeffrey . Wilke............................ Vice President and General Manager, Operations Mark . Peek................................ Vice President, Finance JEFFREY . BEZOS. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President from founding until June and Treasurer and Secretary from May March . From December June , . Bezos was employed . Shaw & ., Wall Street investment firm, becoming Senior Vice President . From April December , . Bezos was employed Bankers Trust Company, becoming Vice President February . . Bezos also director drugstore com, inc. . Bezos received his . Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University. JOSEPH GALLI, . . Galli joined Amazon com June President and Chief Operating Officer. From until June , . Galli held variety positions with The Black and Decker Corporation, culminating president Black and Decker\' Worldwide Power Tools and Accessories. president, supervised the marketing, sales, manufacturing, engineering, finance, MIS, purchasing and product service departments. . Galli received . Business Administration from the University North Carolina and . from Loyola College. WARREN . JENSON. . Jenson joined Amazon com September Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. Before joining Amazon com, . Jenson was the Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President for Delta Air Lines from April September . From September April , . Jenson served Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President for the National Broadcasting Company (NBC), subsidiary General Electric, and participated efforts develop MSNBC, the cable-Internet joint news venture between NBC and Microsoft. . Jenson earned his Masters Accountancy -- Business Taxation, and . Accounting from Brigham Young University. JOHN . RISHER. . Risher has served Amazon com Senior Vice President and General Manager, Retail Group since February . . Risher joined Amazon com February Vice President Product Development. . Risher served Senior Vice President Product Development from November February and Vice President Product Development from February November . From July February , . Risher held variety marketing and project management positions Microsoft Corporation, including Team Manager for Microsoft Access and Founder and Product Unit Manager for Investor, Microsoft\' Web site for personal investment. . Risher received his . Comparative Literature from Princeton University and his . from Harvard Business School. DIEGO PIACENTINI. . Piacentini joined Amazon com Senior Vice President and General Manager, International February . From April until joining Amazon com, . Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager, Europe Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple Computer\' operations Europe, the Middle East and Africa. From April April , . Piacentini was European Sales Director Apple Computer, Inc. From May until April , . Piacentini was General Manager Apple Computer\' Italy operations, and before that, from September May , . Piacentini was Apple Computer\' Sales Director for Italy. . Piacentini joined Apple Computer . Prior that time held financial management position Fiatimpresit Italy. . Piacentini received degree Economics from Bocconi University Milan, Italy . RICHARD . DALZELL. . Dalzell joined Amazon com August Vice President and Chief Information Officer. From February August , . Dalzell held several management positions within the Information Systems Division Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., including Vice President Information Systems from January August . From , . Dalzell acted the Business Development Manager for -Systems, Inc. Prior joining -Systems, Inc. served seven years the United States Army teleprocessing officer. . Dalzell received . Engineering from the United States Military Academy, West Point. MARK . BRITTO. . Britto has served Vice President, Strategic Alliances since August . From June August , . Britto served Director Business Development. . Britto joined Amazon com June part the acquisition Accept com, which -founded October and served Vice President. From October through October , . Britto was Executive Vice President Credit Policy FirstUSA Bank, where was responsible for their credit risk management practice. Prior that, served Senior Vice President Risk Management NationsBank. . Britto received . Operations Research and . Industrial Engineering and Operations Research from the University California Berkeley. JEFFREY . WILKE. . Wilke has served Vice President and General Manager, Operations since September . Previously, . Wilke held variety positions AlliedSignal from , including Vice President and General Manager the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit from March September and General Manager the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from August February . Prior his employment AlliedSignal, was information technology consultant with Andersen Consulting. received . chemical engineering from Princeton University and has . and Master Science chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute Technology. MARK . PEEK. . Peek joined Amazon com March Vice President, Finance, and has been selected become Chief Accounting Officer beginning April , . Prior joining Amazon com, . Peek was, since , partner the independent public accounting firm Deloitte & Touche LLP where served lead partner for number that firm\' multi-national technology clients. . Peek joined Deloitte & Touche . . Peek received . Accounting, Economics and International Business from Minnesota State University. BOARD DIRECTORS NAME AGE POSITION ---- --- -------- Jeffrey . Bezos........................ Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Joseph Galli, ........................ President and Chief Operating Officer Tom . Alberg........................... Managing Director Madrona Venture Group, . Scott . Cook........................... Chairman the Executive Committee Intuit, Inc. . John Doerr........................... General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Patricia . Stonesifer.................. -Chair the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company does not own any real estate. Its principal office facilities the are located several leased facilities Seattle, Washington under leases that expire August through September . The Company\' office facilities the comprise total approximately , square feet. The Company\' warehousing and fulfillment operations for its Books, Music and DVD video segment and its Early-Stage Businesses and Other segment are housed eight distribution centers located Seattle, Washington; New Castle, Delaware; Fernley, Nevada; Lexington, Kentucky; Campbellsville, Kentucky; McDonough, Georgia; Coffeyville, Kansas and Grand Forks, North Dakota. These distribution centers comprise total approximately million square feet. The Seattle and Delaware distribution center leases expire October and October , respectively, and the remaining distribution center leases expire from through . The Company leases additional properties Europe for its International segment, including approximately , square feet office space Germany and the and distribution center each country with combined , square feet available space. The subsidiary will begin leasing additional , square feet distribution center space Marston Gate, England April . The lease for the German distribution center, located Bad Hersfeld, Germany, expires December . The lease for the new Marston Gate distribution center expires March . ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS January and February , three federal class action lawsuits were filed against the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Alexa Internet. The lawsuits, entitled Newby . Alexa Internet and Amazon com, Inc. (filed January , , the Northern District California), Bieles . Alexa Internet and Amazon com (filed January , , the Northern District California), and Supnick . Amazon com and Alexa Internet (filed February , , the Western District Washington), allege that Alexa Internet\' tracking and storage Internet Web usage paths violates federal and state statutes prohibiting computer fraud, unfair competition, and unauthorized interception private electronic communications, well common law proscriptions against trespass and invasion privacy. The complaints seek actual, statutory, and punitive damages, well restitution, behalf all users Alexa Internet\' Web navigation service, well injunctive relief prohibiting Alexa Internet from tracking and storing such information disclosing third parties. Although the Company disputes the allegations wrongdoing these complaints, there can assurance that the Company will prevail these lawsuits. addition, the Federal Trade Commission has requested information and documents regarding Alexa Internet\' practices and has opened formal investigative file connection with its inquiry. The Company cooperating voluntarily with the Federal Trade Commission\' investigation. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted for vote stockholders the Company during the fourth quarter the year ended December , . PART ITEM . MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT\' COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Market Information The common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. HIGH LOW ------- ------ Year ended December , First Quarter........................................... $ $ Second Quarter.......................................... Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... Year ended December , First Quarter........................................... $ $ Second Quarter.......................................... Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... The prices this table have been adjusted reflect the -for- stock split effected June , , the -for- stock split effected January , , and the -for- stock split effected September , . Holders February , , there were , stockholders record the common stock, although there much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. intend retain all future earnings finance future growth and, therefore, not anticipate paying any cash dividends the foreseeable future. addition, are restricted from paying cash dividends under our senior discount notes. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources." Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. ITEM . SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and the information contained herein Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations." Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------------------------------- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) STATEMENT OPERATIONS DATA( ): Net sales.................................... $ , , $ , $ , $ , $ Cost sales................................ , , , , , ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Gross profit................................. , , , , Operating expenses: Marketing and sales........................ , , , , Technology and content..................... , , , , General and administrative................. , , , , Stock-based compensation................... , , , -- Amortization goodwill and other intangibles.............................. , , -- -- -- Merger, acquisition and investment-related costs.................................... , , -- -- -- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Total operating expenses............... , , , , ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Loss from operations......................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Interest income.............................. , , , Interest expense............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( ) -- Other income, net............................ , -- -- -- -- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Net interest income (expense) and other............................... ( , ) ( , ) , ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Loss before equity losses equity-method investees.................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Equity losses equity-method investees.................................. ( , ) ( , ) -- -- -- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Net loss..................................... $ ( , ) $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) $ ( ) ========== ========= ======== ======= ======== Basic and diluted loss per share( ).......... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========== ========= ======== ======= ======== Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share( ).................. , , , , , ========== ========= ======== ======= ======== DECEMBER , ----------------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- -------- ------ ------ ( THOUSANDS) BALANCE SHEET DATA( ): Cash.............................................. $ , $ , $ , $ $ Marketable securities............................. , , , , Working capital................................... , , , , Total assets...................................... , , , , , , Long-term debt.................................... , , , , -- -- Stockholders\' equity.............................. , , , , - --------------- ( ) Reflects restatement for pooling interests. See Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ( ) For further discussion loss per share see Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM . MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . This Act provides "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements encourage companies provide prospective information about themselves long they identify these statements forward looking and provide meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results differ from the projected results. All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward looking. use words such "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "future" and "intends" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\' current expectations and are inherently uncertain. The Company\' actual results may differ significantly from management\' expectations. This following discussion includes forward-looking statements regarding expectations future profitability the books business, gross margin, improvement operating loss and sales, all which are inherently difficult predict. Actual results could differ significantly for variety reasons, including the rate growth the Internet and online commerce, the amount that the Company invests new business opportunities and the timing those investments, customer spending patterns, the mix products sold customers, the mix revenues derived from product sales compared services, risks inventory management, and risks distribution and fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company\' actual results differ significantly from management\' expectations, are described greater detail the section entitled "Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results," which, along with the following discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\' expectations. RESULTS OPERATIONS Net Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE ---------- -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Net sales................... $ , , % $ , % $ , Net sales include the selling price products sold , net returns and gift certificate discounts, and also include outbound shipping charges. Shipping revenue was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Net sales also include commissions from auctions and zShops transactions, which include sales commissions, placement fees and fees from payment service transactions. Growth net sales and reflects significant increase units sold due the growth our customer base, repeat purchases from existing customers, increased international sales, and the introduction new product offerings. These new product offerings include music and DVD video June and November , respectively, toys and electronics July and home improvement, software and video games November . increased our issuance promotional gift certificates customers promote new product lines, however, which partially offset such growth net sales. The Company had approximately million, million and million cumulative customer accounts December , , and , respectively. The percentage orders repeat customers increased from % the fourth quarter % the fourth quarter . The increase net sales was also partially due the launch the and German focused Web sites October . Sales customers outside the represented approximately %, % and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. Gross Profit % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Gross profit.................. $ , % $ , % $ , Gross margin.................. % % % Gross profit consists net sales less the cost sales, which consists the cost merchandise sold customers, well inbound and outbound shipping costs and the cost tangible supplies used package product for shipment customers. Gross profit increased and absolute dollars, reflecting the Company\' increased sales volume. Gross margin decreased due the introduction new product lines, particularly toys and electronics, and inventory-related charges approximately $ million incurred the fourth quarter . also increased our issuance promotional gift certificates customers promote these new product lines, which decreased net sales and, therefore, gross margin. Additionally, realized lower shipping margins due increase partial shipments satisfy holiday demand and because split shipments from one more locations, which was caused our failure optimize inventory our distribution centers. Gross margin increased compared result improvements product costs through improved supply chain management, including increased direct purchasing from publishers, well higher overall shipping margins. These two factors more than offset the impact aggressive product pricing and lower music and video margins. noted above, outbound shipping costs are included cost sales. Gross profit from shipping, which represents shipping revenues less outbound shipping costs, was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. expect our overall gross margin approach % for the first quarter and for the year. believe that offering our customers attractive prices essential component our business strategy. For example, offer everyday discounts % every book the New York Times bestseller list, % hundreds thousands titles and % certain "special value" editions. may the future expand increase the discounts offer our customers and may otherwise alter our pricing structure and policies manner that may adversely impact gross profit and gross margin. intend continue expand our operations promoting new complementary products sales formats and expanding the breadth and depth our product and service offerings. Gross margins attributable new business areas may different from those associated with our existing business activities. the extent such product lines become larger components our sales, would expect corresponding impact overall product gross margin. believe that the Amazon com Commerce Network will tend increase gross margins the future because the revenue associated with the activities conducted Amazon com Commerce Network generates substantially higher gross profit than the Company\' sale products. See "Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results -- Our business could suffer are unsuccessful making and integrating business combinations and strategic alliances." Organizations responsible for promulgating accounting standards are currently reviewing the financial statement classification , and accounting for, fulfillment and order processing costs and other items number -commerce companies, including Amazon com. The review these accounting organizations may lead new accounting standards that could require that some all our fulfillment and order processing costs classified costs sales. currently include these costs Marketing and Sales. These new standards could also require capitalize certain our fulfillment and order processing costs inventory. currently expense these costs incurred. will adjust our accounting and classification fulfillment and order processing costs required accounting organizations the SEC. Marketing and Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Marketing and sales........... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales....... % % % Marketing and sales expenses consist advertising, promotional and public relations expenditures, credit card fees and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, selling and fulfillment activities. Fulfillment costs included marketing and sales expenses represent those costs incurred operating and staffing distribution and customer service centers, including costs attributable receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customers\' orders for shipment; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Marketing and sales expenses increased and primarily due increased payroll and related costs associated with fulfilling customer demand, increases our advertising and promotional expenditures the , Germany and the , and increased credit card fees resulting from higher sales. The increase was further attributable increased advertising during the holiday season and the promotion the new toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement stores. The increase was also attributable the entry into music and video sales and the launch new Web sites targeting Germany and the . Marketing and sales expenses increased percentage net sales compared primarily due increases fulfillment expenses associated with our expansion our distribution center network and customer service staff during . Marketing and sales expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. intend continue our advertising and marketing activities the future and expect that such expenditures will continue increase absolute dollars, but, percentage sales, will likely decline the future. also expect that fulfillment costs will decline percentage sales the future additional capacity our existing distribution center network more fully utilized. However, due risks related market share, seasonality, distribution centers, inventory management and other factors, advertising and marketing expenditures and fulfillment costs may not decline percentage sales. Organizations responsible for promulgating accounting standards are currently reviewing the financial statement classification , and accounting for, fulfillment and order processing costs and other items number -commerce companies, including Amazon com. The review these accounting organizations may lead new accounting standards that could require that some all our fulfillment and order processing costs classified costs sales. These new standards could also require capitalize certain our fulfillment and order processing costs inventory. currently expense these costs incurred. will adjust our accounting and classification fulfillment and order processing costs required accounting organizations the SEC. Technology and Content % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Technology and content......... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales........ % % % Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs acquired content, including freelance reviews. The increases technology and content expenses and were primarily attributable increased staffing and associated costs related continual enhancements the features, content and functionality our Web sites and transaction-processing systems, well increased investment systems and telecommunications infrastructure. These increases also were the result the costs developing, introducing and operating new product lines, operating expenses associated with acquired entities and, , the costs developing, introducing and operating new Web sites targeting Germany and the . Technology and content expenses increased percentage net sales due the significant number new product lines and services launched during the year. Technology and content expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. Technology and content costs are generally expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software that are capitalized and depreciated over estimated useful lives. believe that continued investment technology and content critical attaining our strategic objectives. addition ongoing investments our Web stores and infrastructure, intend increase investments products, services and international expansion. result, expect technology and content expenses continue increase absolute dollars. General and Administrative % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) General and administrative....... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales.......... % % % General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. The and increases general and administrative expenses were primarily result increased salaries and related expenses associated with the hiring additional personnel and legal and other professional fees related our growth. both and , additional expenses were incurred associated with acquired entities and the related international expansion and expanded activities. expect general and administrative expenses increase absolute dollars incur additional costs support the growth our business. Stock-based Compensation % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Stock-based compensation.......... $ , , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales........... % % % Stock-based compensation comprised the portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure key employees the acquired businesses, which must classified compensation expense rather than component purchase price under generally accepted accounting principles. Stock-based compensation also includes stock-based charges such option-related deferred compensation recorded our initial public offering, well certain other compensation and severance arrangements. The increase stock-based compensation resulted primarily from acquisitions closed . Stock-based compensation for and relates primarily option-related deferred compensation recorded the time our initial public offering. Amortization Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangibles % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ---- ( THOUSANDS) Amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles............ $ , % $ , $ Increases amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles primarily resulted from the amortization goodwill and other intangibles recorded the time our acquisitions Exchange com, Alexa Internet, Accept com, LiveBid com, the catalog and online commerce assets Acme Electric Motor . (Tool Crib the North), Back Basics Toys and other acquisitions. , amortization charges resulted from the amortization goodwill and other intangibles recorded the acquisitions Junglee and three smaller Internet companies. expect that amortization charges from the acquisitions consummated will increase based full year amortization for all the acquisitions. likely that will continue expand our business through acquisitions, which would cause amortization goodwill and other intangibles increase. Loss from Operations % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Loss from operations.......... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales....... % % % Our loss from operations increased from , and from , due continued expansion our business. Our operating expenses have historically increased more quickly than our revenues have expanded our operations. expect that our overall loss from operations incurred will decrease significantly percentage net sales, compared that percentage . Interest Income and Expense % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Interest income.................. $ , % $ , % $ , Interest expense................. , % , , % Interest income cash and marketable securities increased due higher investment balances resulting from the proceeds from the issuance $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the "Convertible Subordinated Notes") February and increased due the issuance approximately $ million gross proceeds % Senior Discount Notes due May , (the "Senior Discount Notes") May . Interest expense increased and due the interest expense associated with this debt, well amortization deferred charges associated with issuance the notes. February , , completed offering E690, , ($ , , February , ) % Convertible Subordinated Notes due , also known Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities, "PEACS." Therefore, expect interest expense increase the future for interest associated with these notes. Equity Losses Equity-Method Investees % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ---- ( THOUSANDS) Equity losses equity-method investees.......................... $ , , % $ , $ Equity losses equity-method investees represents our share losses companies which have investments that give the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. This generally defined ownership interest the voting stock the investee between % and %. made several equity-method investments and increased our investment the equity-method investment made . expect make additional equity-method investments the future. Many the companies which have invested date are the early stage their operations and are incurring net losses. Therefore, expect continue record losses our equity-method investments. July , one our equity-method investees, drugstore com, inc., completed the initial public offering its common stock. drugstore com operates online retail store and information site for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy products. connection with this transaction, recorded contribution additional paid- capital $ million, representing the difference between the carrying value our investment and the underlying net book value drugstore com after the IPO. Two our other equity-method investees, Pets com and Homegrocer com, completed their IPOs February and March , respectively. therefore will record contribution additional paid- capital connection with these transactions, and reasonably possible that other equity-method investees may complete IPOs the future. Income Taxes did not provide any current deferred federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because have experienced operating losses since inception. Utilization our net operating loss carryforwards, which begin expire , may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. have provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. PRO FORMA INFORMATION Pro forma information regarding our results, which excludes amortization goodwill and other intangibles, stock-based compensation, equity losses equity-method investees and merger, acquisition and investment-related costs, follows: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNT) Pro forma loss from operations............................. $( , ) Pro forma net loss......................................... $( , ) Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share................. $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic and diluted loss per share........................................... , Using the methodology described above derive pro forma loss from operations, our books business was profitable the fourth quarter and expect this business profitable . The pro forma results are presented for informational purposes only and are not prepared accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES December , , our cash balance was $ million, compared $ million December , . Our marketable securities balance, which includes highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Net cash used operating activities amounted $ million for . This was primarily attributable the net loss for the year $ million, partially offset non-cash charges related depreciation, stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles, and equity losses equity-method investees totaling $ million, well $ million cash provided changes operating assets and liabilities. Cash provided changes operating assets and liabilities primarily function increase accounts payable and accrued liabilities, offset increase inventories and prepaid expenses and other current assets. For , net cash provided operating activities was $ million and was primarily attributable non-cash expenses and increases accounts payable and accrued expenses, largely offset the net loss and increases inventories and prepaid expenses and other. Net cash used investing activities was $ million and consisted net purchases marketable securities $ million, purchases fixed assets $ million and cash paid for acquisitions and investments businesses $ million. Net cash used investing activities during was $ million and consisted net purchases marketable securities $ million, purchases fixed assets $ million and cash paid for acquisitions and investments businesses $ million. Net cash provided financing activities $ billion for was primarily due $ billion proceeds from the sale our Convertible Subordinated Notes February , partially offset repayment long-term debt, including $ million cash paid repurchase portion our outstanding Senior Discount Notes. Net cash provided financing activities $ million for primarily resulted from net proceeds approximately $ million from the Senior Discount Notes offering offset the repayment $ million long-term debt. December , , our principal sources liquidity consisted $ million cash and marketable securities. that date, our principal commitments consisted obligations outstanding under our Convertible Subordinated Notes due and Senior Discount Notes, well obligations connection with operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements. During , undertook substantial expansion our distribution center network the , adding six distribution centers the . also opened new distribution centers the and Germany. anticipate that our current distribution center capacity the will adequate for our needs for least the next months, but may require additional capacity international markets. May , completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds the Senior Discount Notes, February , completed the offering approximately $ billion Convertible Subordinated Notes, and February , completed the offering E690 million % Convertible Subordinated Notes due , also knows PEACS. See Notes and Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated reference Item Part . believe that current cash and marketable securities balances, together with net proceeds from the PEACS, will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. current cash, marketable securities and cash that may generated from operations are insufficient satisfy our liquidity requirements, may seek sell additional equity debt securities obtain credit facilities from lenders. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities could result additional dilution the Company\' stockholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition investment complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the repurchase and retirement debt, which might impact our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that financing will available amounts terms acceptable , all. YEAR IMPLICATIONS Many currently installed computer systems, software programs and embedded data chips are programmed using two-digit date field and are therefore unable distinguish dates beyond the 20th century. failure identify and correct any mission-critical internal third-party year processing problem could have material adverse operational financial consequence . established Year Project Team that, together with external consultants, developed process for addressing the year issue, including performing inventory, assessment, remediation procedures ( the extent necessary) and testing procedures all mission-critical information systems and equipment and machinery that contain embedded technology, well obtaining assurances from all mission-critical third parties their own year preparedness. the date filing this Annual Report Form - , all our mission-critical systems have been successfully tested for year compliance, and have not experienced any significant year problems with our own mission-critical systems any mission-critical third parties. Although have not experienced any significant year problems date, plan continue monitor the situation closely. cannot sure that will completely successful our efforts address the year issue that problems arising from the year issue will not cause material adverse effect our operating results financial condition. believe, however, that our most reasonably likely worst-case scenario would relate problems with the systems third parties rather than with our internal systems. are limited our efforts address the year issue relates third parties and rely solely the assurances these third parties their year preparedness. part our broader contingency planning, also developed business continuity plans address each critical process and activity that believe would cause significant disruption operations not functional for hours. Despite these efforts, cannot guarantee that the contingency plan will adequately address all circumstances that may disrupt operations that such planning will prevent circumstances that may cause material adverse effect our operating results financial condition. ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK not have any derivative financial instruments our marketable securities portfolio December , . However, are exposed interest rate risk debt instruments hold. employ established policies and procedures manage our exposure changes the market risk our marketable securities, which are classified available-for-sale December , and . Our Senior Discount Notes, Convertible Subordinated Notes, PEACS and other long-term debt have fixed interest rates and the fair value these instruments affected changes market interest rates. believe that the market risk arising from holdings our financial instruments not material. Our exposure currency exchange risk through December , has not been material. However, with the completion the offering PEACS notes February , , will exposed currency exchange risk because the debt denominated euros while our functional currency the dollar. plan employ established policies and procedures mitigate the risk exchange rate fluctuations. Additionally, the conversion price for the PEACS denominated euros. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources." The table below provides information about our marketable securities, including principal cash flows for through and the related weighted average interest rates. Principal (notional) amounts expected maturity dollars December , : ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE DECEMBER , THEREAFTER TOTAL ------- -------- ------- ------ ------- ---------- -------- -------------- Commercial paper and short-term obligations..... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % % % % % % Corporate notes and bonds.... , , -- -- -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % -- -- -- -- % Asset-backed and agency securities................. , , , , , , , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % % % % % % Treasury notes and bonds..... , , , , -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % % % -- -- % ------- -------- ------- ------ ------- -------- -------- -------- Total Portfolio.......... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ======= ======== ======= ====== ======= ======== ======== ======== Principal (notional) amounts expected maturity dollars December , : ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE DECEMBER , THEREAFTER TOTAL -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ---------- -------- -------------- Commercial paper and short-term obligations...... $ , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % Corporate notes and bonds..... , , -- -- -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % % Asset-backed and agency securities.................. -- , , , , , , , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % % % % % Treasury notes and bonds...... , , , , -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % % % % -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- Total Portfolio, excluding equity securities....... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ======== ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= ======== ======== ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE ---- Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors........... Consolidated Balance Sheets................................. Consolidated Statements Operations....................... Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity............. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows....................... Notes Consolidated Financial Statements.................. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item ( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / ERNST & YOUNG LLP Seattle, Washington February , , except for Note which the date February , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) ASSETS DECEMBER , ---------------------- ---------- -------- Current assets: Cash...................................................... $ , $ , Marketable securities..................................... , , Inventories............................................... , , Prepaid expenses and other current assets................. , , ---------- -------- Total current assets.............................. , , , Fixed assets, net........................................... , , Goodwill, net............................................... , , Other purchased intangibles, net............................ , , Investments equity-method investees...................... , , Other investments........................................... , -- Deferred charges and other.................................. , , ---------- -------- Total assets...................................... $ , , $ , ========== ======== LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable.......................................... $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities............ , , Accrued advertising....................................... , , Deferred revenue.......................................... , -- Interest payable.......................................... , Current portion long-term debt and other............... , ---------- -------- Total current liabilities......................... , , Long-term debt and other.................................... , , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , Issued and outstanding shares -- none.................. -- -- Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , , Issued and outstanding shares -- , and , shares December , and , respectively.... , , Additional paid- capital................................ , , , Note receivable for common stock.......................... ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation.................................. ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)............. ( , ) , Accumulated deficit....................................... ( , ) ( , ) ---------- -------- Total stockholders\' equity........................ , , ---------- -------- Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity........ $ , , $ , ========== ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ----------------------------------- ---------- --------- -------- Net sales................................................ $ , , $ , $ , Cost sales............................................ , , , , ---------- --------- -------- Gross profit........................................ , , , Operating expenses: Marketing and sales.................................... , , , Technology and content................................. , , , General and administrative............................. , , , Stock-based compensation............................... , , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles......... , , -- Merger, acquisition and investment-related costs....... , , -- ---------- --------- -------- Total operating expenses....................... , , , ---------- --------- -------- Loss from operations..................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest income.......................................... , , , Interest expense......................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other income, net........................................ , -- -- ---------- --------- -------- Net interest income (expense) and other............. ( , ) ( , ) , ---------- --------- -------- Loss before equity losses equity-method investees.............................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees.............. ( , ) ( , ) -- ---------- --------- -------- Net loss................................................. $ ( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ========== ========= ======== Basic and diluted loss per share......................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========== ========= ======== Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share.................................................. , , , ========== ========= ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( THOUSANDS) ACCUMULATED PREFERRED STOCK COMMON STOCK ADDITIONAL NOTE RECEIVABLE OTHER --------------- ---------------- PAID- FOR DEFERRED COMPREHENSIVE SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT CAPITAL COMMON STOCK COMPENSATION INCOME (LOSS) ------ ------ ------- ------ ---------- --------------- ------------ ------------- Balance January , .... $ , $ , $ , $ -- $ ( ) $ -- Net loss..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Sale preferred stock...... -- -- -- -- -- -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs...... -- -- , , -- -- -- Conversion preferred stock into common stock.......... ( ) ( ) , ( ) -- -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued technology and content..... -- -- , , -- -- -- Issuance capital stock.... -- -- , , -- -- -- Exercise common stock options.................... -- -- , -- -- -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- -- -- -- ( ) -- , -- ---- --- ------- ------ ---------- ------- -------- ------- Balance December , ......................... -- -- , , , -- ( , ) -- Net loss..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation losses..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ( ) Change unrealized gain marketable securities...... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- , Comprehensive loss............ Issuance capital stock.... -- -- , , -- -- -- Exercise common stock options.................... -- -- , , -- -- -- Note receivable for common stock...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( , ) -- -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- -- -- -- -- -- , -- ---- --- ------- ------ ---------- ------- -------- ------- Balance December , ......................... -- -- , , , ( , ) ( , ) , Net loss..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation gains...................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Change unrealized gain (loss) marketable securities, net reclassification adjustment................. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ( , ) Comprehensive loss............ Issuance capital stock.... -- -- , , -- -- -- Exercise common stock options.................... -- -- , , -- -- -- Initial public offering equity-method investee..... -- -- -- -- , -- -- -- Note receivable for common stock...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) -- -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- -- -- -- -- -- , -- ---- --- ------- ------ ---------- ------- -------- ------- Balance December , ......................... -- $-- , $ , $ , , $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ==== === ======= ====== ========== ======= ======== ======= TOTAL ACCUMULATED STOCKHOLDERS\' DEFICIT EQUITY ----------- ------------- Balance January , .... $ ( , ) $ , Net loss..................... ( , ) ( , ) Sale preferred stock...... -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs...... -- , Conversion preferred stock into common stock.......... -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued technology and content..... -- , Issuance capital stock.... -- , Exercise common stock options.................... -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- , --------- --------- Balance December , ......................... ( , ) , --------- Net loss..................... ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation losses..................... -- ( ) Change unrealized gain marketable securities...... -- , --------- Comprehensive loss............ ( , ) --------- Issuance capital stock.... -- , Exercise common stock options.................... -- , Note receivable for common stock...................... -- ( , ) Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- , --------- --------- Balance December , ......................... ( , ) , --------- Net loss..................... ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains...................... -- Change unrealized gain (loss) marketable securities, net reclassification adjustment................. -- ( , ) --------- Comprehensive loss............ ( , ) --------- Issuance capital stock.... -- , Exercise common stock options.................... -- , Initial public offering equity-method investee..... -- , Note receivable for common stock...................... -- ( ) Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- , --------- --------- Balance December , ......................... $( , ) $ , ========= ========= See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( THOUSANDS) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ------------------------------------- ----------- --------- --------- OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net loss................................................... $ ( , ) $( , ) $ ( , ) Adjustments reconcile net loss net cash provided (used) operating activities: Depreciation and amortization fixed assets............ , , , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation........ , , , Equity losses equity-method investees.............. , , -- Amortization goodwill and other intangibles........... , , -- Non-cash merger, acquisition, and investment related costs................................................. , , -- Non-cash revenue for advertising and promotional services.............................................. ( , ) -- -- Loss sale marketable securities.................... , -- Non-cash interest expense................................ , , ----------- --------- --------- Net cash used operating activities before changes operating assets and liabilities...................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Changes operating assets and liabilities, net effects from acquisitions: Inventories........................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Prepaid expenses and other current assets............. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts payable...................................... , , , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities........ , , , Accrued advertising................................... , , , Deferred revenue...................................... -- -- Interest payable...................................... , ( ) -- ----------- --------- --------- Net cash provided changes operating assets and liabilities, net effects from acquisitions................................... , , , ----------- --------- --------- Net cash provided (used) operating activities..................................... ( , ) , INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Sales and maturities marketable securities.............. , , , , Purchases marketable securities......................... ( , , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets.................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisitions and investments businesses, net cash acquired................................................. ( , ) ( , ) -- ----------- --------- --------- Net cash used investing activities............ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from issuance capital stock and exercise stock options............................................ , , , Proceeds from long-term debt............................... , , , , Repayment long-term debt................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Financing costs............................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ----------- --------- --------- Net cash provided financing activities........ , , , , Effect exchange rate changes............................ ( ) -- ----------- --------- --------- Net increase cash....................................... , , , Cash beginning period................................ , , ----------- --------- --------- Cash end period...................................... $ , $ , $ , =========== ========= ========= SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Fixed assets acquired under capital leases................. $ , $ -- $ , Fixed assets acquired under financing agreements........... , -- , Stock issued connection with business acquisitions...... , , -- Equity securities other companies received for non-cash revenue for advertising and promotional services......... , -- -- Cash paid for interest, net amounts capitalized......... , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE -- ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Inc. (Amazon com the Company) was incorporated July and opened its virtual doors the Web July . Amazon com Internet retailer offering more than million unique items categories including books, music, DVD video, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement products. Amazon com offers free electronic greeting card service and also provides community online shoppers with easy and safe way purchase and sell large selection products through Amazon com Auctions and zShops. Business Combinations and Investments For business combinations that have been accounted for under the purchase method accounting, the Company includes the results operations the acquired business from the date acquisition. Net assets the companies acquired are recorded their fair value the date acquisition. The excess the purchase price over the fair value tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired included goodwill the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. One business combination was accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. this case, the assets, liabilities and stockholders\' equity the acquired entity was combined with the Company\' respective accounts recorded values. The consolidated financial statements reflect the restatement all periods presented include the accounts the acquired entity accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. The historical results the pooled entity reflect its actual operating cost structures and, result, not necessarily reflect the cost structure the newly combined entity. The historical results not purport indicative future results. Investments affiliated entities which the Company has the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, investee, generally ownership interest the voting stock between % and %, are accounted for under the equity method accounting. Accordingly, under the equity method accounting, the Company\' share the investee\' earnings loss included the consolidated statements operations. The Company records its investments equity-method investees the consolidated balance sheets "Investments equity-method investees" and its share the investees\' earnings losses "Equity losses equity-method investees." The portion the Company\' investment equity-method investee that exceeds its claim the net assets the investee, any, assigned goodwill and amortized over period three years. The goodwill amount, which was $ million December , , included "Investments equity-method investees" the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, and the amortization the goodwill included "Equity losses equity-method investees" the accompanying consolidated statements operations. All other investments, which consist investments for which the Company does not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method accounting. Dividends and other distributions earnings from other investees, any, are included income when declared. The Company periodically evaluates the carrying value its investments accounted for under the cost method accounting and December , and , such investments were recorded the lower cost estimated net realizable value. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities and disclosure contingent assets and liabilities the date the financial statements and the reported amounts revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Marketable Securities The Company\' marketable securities, which consist primarily high-quality short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds, are classified available-for-sale and are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reported, net taxes, component stockholders\' equity within accumulated other comprehensive income. Unrealized losses are charged against income when decline fair value determined other than temporary. The specific identification method used determine the cost securities sold. The Company classifies all investments cash marketable securities, including highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, and reflects the related cash flows investing cash flows. result the classification highly liquid investments within marketable securities, significant portion the Company\' gross marketable securities purchases and maturities disclosed investing cash flows related highly liquid investments. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are valued the lower cost (specific identification) market. Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two ten years). Fixed assets purchased under capital leases are amortized straight-line basis over the lesser the estimated useful life the asset the lease term. Included fixed assets the cost internal-use software, including software used connection with the Company\' Web sites. The Company expenses all costs related the development internal-use software other than those incurred during the application development stage. Costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software (generally two years). Goodwill, Net Goodwill, net, represents the excess the purchase price over the fair value assets acquired business acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method. Goodwill presented net related accumulated amortization and being amortized over lives ranging from two four years. Other Purchased Intangibles, Net Other purchased intangibles, net, include identifiable intangible assets purchased the Company, primarily connection with business acquisitions. Other purchased intangibles are presented net related accumulated amortization and are being amortized over lives ranging from two four years. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Long-Lived Assets The carrying values intangible assets and other long-lived assets, including equity-method investments, are reviewed regular basis for the existence facts circumstances, both internally and externally, that may suggest impairment. date, such impairment has been indicated. Fair Value Financial Instruments The carrying amounts for the Company\' cash, accounts payable and other liabilities approximate fair value. The fair market value for long-term debt and marketable securities based quoted market prices where available. Deferred Charges Deferred charges consist fees associated with the issuance the Company\' debt. The fees are being amortized and included interest expense over the life the related debt. Deferred Revenue Deferred revenue consists advertising fees earned the future under agreements existing the balance sheet date. Income Taxes The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected effect when the differences are expected recovered. The Company provides valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which does not consider realization such assets more likely than not. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue from product sales, net any promotional gift certificates, when the products are shipped customers, which also when title passes customers. Outbound shipping charges are included net sales and amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Revenue from gift certificates recognized upon product shipment following redemption. The Company provides allowance for sales returns based historical experience. Revenues from services are recorded the time the related service performed. During , the Company recorded approximately $ million revenue associated with noncash transactions whereby the Company received equity securities other companies exchange for advertising and promotional services provided for fixed period time. The Company recorded the fair value the consideration the date received, $ million, and recognizing revenue ratably over the term the agreements the advertising and promotional services are provided. Cost Sales Cost sales consists the actual cost products purchased for resale and related -bound shipping charges, out-bound shipping charges, and the actual cost tangible supplies used package products for shipment customers. Outbound shipping charges and the cost tangible supplies used package products for shipment customers totaled $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Fulfillment Costs Included marketing and sales expense are fulfillment costs, which consist the cost operating and staffing distribution and customer service centers. Such costs include those attributable receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customers\' orders for shipment; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Advertising Costs The cost advertising expensed incurred. For the years ended December , , and , the Company incurred advertising expense $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants, systems and telecommunications infrastructure and costs acquired content. Technology and content costs are generally expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software, including those relating the Company\' Web sites, that are capitalized and depreciated over estimated useful lives. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees (APB . ), and related interpretations, accounting for its employee stock options rather than the alternative fair value accounting allowed Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. APB . provides that the compensation expense relative the Company\' employee stock options measured based the intrinsic value the stock option. SFAS . requires companies that continue follow APB . provide pro forma disclosure the impact applying the fair value method SFAS . . Foreign Currency Translation The functional currency the Company\' foreign subsidiaries the local currency. Assets and liabilities foreign subsidiaries are translated into dollars year-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are included accumulated other comprehensive income, separate component stockholders\' equity. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved, which have been insignificant, are included the consolidated statements operations. date, the Company has entered into foreign currency exchange contracts. Concentrations Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company concentrations credit risk consist principally its holdings cash and marketable securities. The Company\' credit risk managed investing its cash and marketable securities high-quality money market instruments and securities the government and its agencies, foreign governments and high-quality corporate issuers. December , and , the Company had significant concentrations credit risk. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Earnings (Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share excludes any dilutive effects options, warrants and convertible securities. Basic earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding, net shares subject repurchase, during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common and common stock equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation their effect antidilutive. result the Company\' initial public offering May , all preferred stock automatically converted into common stock. Accordingly, the net loss per share pro forma loss per share based the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding and preferred stock " " converted basis outstanding during each period. The Company believes that this more meaningful presentation earnings per share for periods prior its initial public offering. New Accounting Pronouncements December , the Securities and Exchange Commission staff released Staff Accounting Bulletin . , Revenue Recognition Financial Statements (SAB . ), which provides guidance the recognition, presentation and disclosure revenue financial statements. SAB . did not impact the Company\' revenue recognition policies. June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. amended SFAS . , SFAS . effective for all fiscal quarters all fiscal years beginning after June , . SFAS . requires that all derivative instruments recorded the balance sheet their fair value. Changes the fair value derivatives are recorded each period current earnings other comprehensive income, depending whether derivative designed part hedge transaction and, , the type hedge transaction. The Company has not yet determined the impact the adoption SFAS . its consolidated financial statements business practices. Reclassifications Certain prior year balances have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. NOTE -- BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The Company completed the following acquisitions during : -Niche Incorporated (Exchange com), Accept com Financial Services Corporation (Accept com), Alexa Internet (Alexa), LiveBid com, Inc. (LiveBid) the catalog and online commerce assets Acme Electric Motor . (Tool Crib) and Back Basics Toys, Inc. (Back Basics). Each acquisition was recorded using the purchase method accounting under APB Opinion . . Results operations for each acquired company have been included the financial results the Company from the closing date each transaction forward. accordance with APB Opinion . , all identifiable assets were assigned portion the cost the acquired companies (purchase price) the basis their respective fair values. Intangible assets were identified and valued considering the Company\' intended use acquired assets and analysis data concerning products, technologies, markets, historical financial performance, and underlying assumptions future performance. The economic and competitive environment which the Company and the acquired companies operate was also considered the valuation analysis. Approximately $ million the purchase price the Accept com and Alexa transactions attributable -process research and development efforts has been expensed because, the time acquisition, technological feasibility had not been established and alternative future uses existed. Purchased -process AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) research and development was identified and valued independent valuation through discussions with the acquired companies\' management and the analysis data concerning developmental products, their respective stage development, the time and resources needed complete them, their expected income generating ability, target markets and associated risks. May , , the Company completed its acquisition Exchange com, developer Internet marketplaces and related online communities that bring together buyers and sellers rare and hard- -find items. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding Exchange com stock options and issued , , shares Amazon com common stock acquire all the outstanding common shares Exchange com. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. Pursuant the terms the agreement, the Company may required issue additional shares with value $ million one year after the acquisition date dependent certain performance goals, which would increase the purchase price this amount. May , , the Company completed its acquisition LiveBid, technology provider for live, event-based auctions the Internet. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding LiveBid stock options and issued , shares acquire all the outstanding common shares LiveBid. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. June , , the Company completed its acquisition Accept com, -commerce company developing technology simplify person- -person and business- -consumer transactions the Internet. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding Accept com stock options and issued , , shares Amazon com common stock acquire all the outstanding common shares Accept com. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. June , , the Company completed its acquisition Alexa, developer Web navigation service that works with Internet browsers provide useful information about the sites being viewed and suggests related sites. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding Alexa stock options and issued , , shares Amazon com common stock acquire all the outstanding common shares Alexa. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. October , and November , , respectively, the Company completed its acquisition the catalog and online commerce assets Tool Crib, retailer home improvement products, and its acquisition Back Basics, catalog retailer toys. connection with these acquisitions, the Company issued total , , shares Amazon com common stock. the approximately $ million aggregate purchase price, approximately $ million was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately four years. The Company made additional immaterial acquisitions during totaling $ million. The Company issued , shares common stock effect these acquisitions. connection with certain acquisitions, the Company has conditioned portion the overall consideration the continued tenure key employees. Under generally accepted accounting principles, portion this amount accounted for compensation rather than component purchase price. Consequently, AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) maximum $ million additional consideration relating the Company\' acquisitions for may recorded compensation expense and classified between stock-based compensation and merger, acquisition and investment-related costs the results operations. Amounts will "earned" based tenure certain employees and will recognized expense over period - months. April , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock three international Internet companies. The aggregate purchase price the three acquisitions, plus related charges, was approximately $ million. The consideration for the acquisitions was comprised common stock and cash. The Company issued aggregate approximately million shares common stock effect the transactions. The goodwill and other purchased intangibles are being amortized straight-line basis over two years. August , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock Junglee Corp. (Junglee). Junglee was leading provider advanced Web-based virtual database technology help shoppers find and discover products the Internet. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options and warrants connection with the acquisition Junglee. The Junglee acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method accounting, with substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. The pro forma consolidated financial information for years ended December , and , determined all acquisitions had occurred January each year, would have resulted net sales $ billion and $ million, net loss $ million and $ million, and basic and diluted loss per share $ and $ , respectively. This unaudited pro forma information presented for illustrative purposes only and not necessarily indicative the results operations future periods results that would have been achieved had Amazon com and the acquired companies been combined during the specified periods. August , the Company exchanged common stock and options for all the outstanding capital stock Sage Enterprises, Inc. (PlanetAll). The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options connection with the merger. The PlanetAll merger was accounted for pooling interests and, result, the Company\' consolidated financial statements have been restated for all periods presented. PlanetAll issued approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million and approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million January and April , respectively. Net sales for PlanetAll were not significant and net loss was $ million and $ million for the nine months ended September , and the year ended December , , respectively, which represent separate results the combined entity through the periods preceding the merger. There were significant intercompany transactions between the two companies and significant conforming accounting adjustments. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize, major security type, the Company\' marketable securities: DECEMBER , --------------------------------------------------- GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED ESTIMATED COST GAINS LOSSES FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Commercial paper and short-term obligations........................... $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Corporate notes and bonds............... , -- ( , ) , Asset-backed and agency securities...... , ( , ) , Treasury notes and bonds................ , ( , ) , -------- ---- -------- -------- $ , $ $( , ) $ , ======== ==== ======== ======== DECEMBER , --------------------------------------------------- GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED ESTIMATED COST GAINS LOSSES FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Commercial paper and short-term obligations........................... $ , $ $ -- $ , Corporate notes and bonds............... , ( ) , Asset-backed and agency securities...... , ( ) , Treasury notes and bonds................ , ( ) , Equity securities....................... , , -- , -------- ------ ----- -------- $ , $ , $( ) $ , ======== ====== ===== ======== December , , the Company also had investments noncurrent available-for-sale equity securities included "Other investments" (Note ). The following table summarizes contractual maturities the Company\' marketable securities December , : AMORTIZED ESTIMATED COST FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Due within one year.................................... $ , $ , Due after one year through five years.................. , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities........................................... , , -------- -------- $ , $ , ======== ======== The gross realized gains and losses sales available-for-sale securities were $ million and $ million, respectively, for the year ended December , . Gross realized gains and losses sales available-for-sale securities were not significant for the years ended December , . Activity unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities was follows: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------- ---------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during period............................................... $( , ) $ , $-- Less: reclassification adjustment for losses included net loss.......................................... , -- -- -------- ------ --- Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities........................................... $ ( , ) $ , $-- ======== ====== === AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consist the following: DECEMBER , -------------------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Computers, equipment and software...................... $ , $ , Leasehold improvements................................. , , Leased assets.......................................... , Construction progress............................... , , -------- -------- , , Less accumulated depreciation and amortization......... ( , ) ( , ) -------- -------- Fixed assets, net................................. $ , $ , ======== ======== The Company capitalized approximately $ million interest during the year ended December , . NOTE -- GOODWILL AND OTHER PURCHASED INTANGIBLES Goodwill and other purchased intangibles are stated net related accumulated amortization, follows: DECEMBER , --------------------- --------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Goodwill.............................................. $ , $ , Less accumulated amortization......................... ( , ) ( , ) --------- -------- Goodwill, net.................................... , , ========= ======== Other purchased intangibles........................... , , Less accumulated amortization......................... ( , ) ( , ) --------- -------- Other purchased intangibles, net................. $ , $ , ========= ======== NOTE -- INVESTMENTS The Company has several equity-method investments included "Investments equity-method investees" the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. December , , the Company\' only equity-method investment was % ownership interest drugstore com, inc. (drugstore com). cases does the Company have the ability control these investees. December , , the Company\' equity-method investees and the Company\' approximate ownership interest each investee, based outstanding shares, were follows: PERCENTAGE COMPANY OWNERSHIP ------- ---------- Della com................................................. % drugstore com............................................. % Gear com.................................................. % HomeGrocer com............................................ % Kozmo com................................................. % Naxon Corporation......................................... % Pets com.................................................. % AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Summarized balance sheet information the Company\' equity-method investees follows: DECEMBER , ------------------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Current assets.......................................... $ , $ , Noncurrent assets....................................... , , Current liabilities..................................... , , Noncurrent liabilities.................................. , Summarized statement operations information the Company\' equity-method investees, calculated for each investee for the period during which the Company had investments such investees, follows: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------- ---------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Net sales................................... $ , $ -- $ -- Gross profit (loss)......................... ( , ) -- -- Net loss.................................... ( , ) ( , ) -- July , drugstore com completed the initial public offering (IPO) its common stock. drugstore com operates online retail store and information site for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy products. Prior the IPO, the Company owned , , shares drugstore com common stock, which represented % the outstanding shares. drugstore com sold , , shares common stock its IPO price $ per share, including , shares purchased the Company. This reduced the Company\' ownership percentage % after the IPO. connection with this transaction, the Company recorded contribution additional paid- capital $ million, representing the difference between the carrying value the Company\' investment and the proportionate underlying net book value drugstore com after the IPO. December , , drugstore com was the only publicly held equity-method investee the Company. The market value the Company\' drugstore com common stock was $ million December , . December , , "Other investments" includes $ million investments accounted for under the cost method and $ million cost method investments securities with ready markets recorded fair value pursuant SFAS . . The cost such noncurrent available-for-sale equity securities December , was $ million. Gross unrealized gains were $ million and gross unrealized losses were $ million December , . NOTE -- LONG-TERM DEBT Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , the Company completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the Convertible Subordinated Notes). The Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into the Company\' common stock the holders\' option conversion price $ per share, subject adjustment certain events. Interest the Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year, and commenced August , . The Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness defined the indenture governing the Convertible Subordinated Notes (the Convertible Subordinated Notes Indenture). Subject certain conditions, the Convertible Subordinated Notes may redeemed the option the Company prior February , , whole part, the redemption price $ , per note, plus accrued and unpaid interest, the closing price for the Company\' common stock has exceeded % the conversion price for least trading days within period consecutive AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) trading days ending the trading day prior the date mailing the notice redemption. Upon any redemption made prior February , , the Company will also make additional cash payment with respect the Convertible Subordinated Notes called for redemption amount equal $ per $ , note redeemed, less the amount any interest actually paid such Convertible Subordinated Notes prior the call for redemption. any time and after February , , the Company may redeem the notes, whole part, the redemption prices set forth the Convertible Subordinated Notes Indenture. Upon the occurrence "fundamental change" ( defined the Convertible Subordinated Notes Indenture) prior the maturity the Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof shall have the right require Amazon com redeem all any part such holder\' Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. The fair value the Convertible Subordinated Notes December , was $ , , , . Senior Discount Notes May , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds % Senior Discount Notes due May , (the Senior Discount Notes). Pursuant registration statement Form - September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (the Exchange Notes), which are registered under the Securities Act , amended, for all outstanding Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout these notes consolidated financial statements interchangeably with the Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the original Senior Discount Notes (the Indenture). The Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. During , the Company repurchased $ million (principal amount) the Senior Discount Notes, representing accreted value $ million. The Company recorded immaterial loss extinguishment this debt. December , , the remaining principal amount outstanding was $ million. The Senior Discount Notes are senior unsecured indebtedness the Company ranking pari passu with the Company\' existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness and senior right payment all subordinated indebtedness the Company. The Senior Discount Notes are effectively subordinated all secured indebtedness and all existing and future liabilities the Company\' subsidiaries. The Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries ( defined the Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all financial covenants December , and . The fair value the outstanding Senior Discount Notes December , was $ million. December , , the carrying amount the Senior Discount Notes approximated fair value. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Leases and Marketing Agreements The Company currently leases office and distribution center facilities and fixed assets under noncancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for , and was $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. The Company has also entered into certain marketing agreements, which include fixed fees through . The costs associated with these agreements are recognized systematic basis over the term the related agreements services are received. Future minimum commitments are follows: OPERATING LEASES AND CAPITAL MARKETING LEASES AGREEMENTS ------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) YEAR ENDING DECEMBER , ............................................ $ , $ , ............................................ , , ............................................ , , ............................................ , ............................................ -- Thereafter........................................... -- -- ------- -------- Total minimum lease payments......................... $ , $ , ======== Less imputed interest................................ , ------- Present value net minimum lease payments.......... , Less current portion............................ , ------- Long-term capital lease obligation................... $ , ======= Legal Proceedings Subsequent December , , certain federal class action lawsuits were filed against the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Alexa. The lawsuits allege that Alexa tracking and storage Internet Web usage paths violates federal and state statutes prohibiting computer fraud, unfair competition, and unauthorized interception private electronic communications, well common law proscriptions against trespass and invasion privacy. The complaints seek actual, statutory, and punitive damages, well restitution, behalf all users Alexa Web navigation service, well injunctive relief prohibiting Alexa from tracking and storing such information disclosing third parties. Although the Company disputes the allegations wrongdoing these complaints, there can assurance that the Company will prevail these lawsuits. addition, the Federal Trade Commission has requested information and documents regarding Alexa practices and has opened formal investigative file connection with its inquiry. The Company cooperating voluntarily with the Federal Trade Commission\' investigation. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect the Company\' business, future results operations cash flows particular period. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition operating results. Letters Credit The Company contingently liable under unused letters credit the amount $ million December , . NOTE -- STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Preferred Stock June , the Company issued , shares Series convertible preferred stock price $ per share. January and February , the Company sold additional , shares Series preferred stock $ per share. The preferred stock was convertible into common stock the option the holder, any time, effective rate shares common stock for one share preferred stock. the closing the Company\' initial public offering, all the preferred stock outstanding was converted into aggregate , , shares common stock. Common Stock April , , the Company effected -for- common stock split. May , , the Company completed initial public offering million shares its common stock. Net proceeds the Company aggregated $ million. June , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend stockholders record May , . January , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend the stockholders record December , . September , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend stockholders record August , . Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restated reflect these stock splits. Stock Option Plans The Company\' stock option plans consist the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, the Stock Option Plan and the Stock Option Plan. Shares reserved under the Plans consist million shares the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, million shares the Stock Option Plan and million shares the Stock Option Plan. Any shares common stock available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan that are not issued under that plan may added the aggregate number shares available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan. connection with certain acquisitions and , the Company assumed outstanding options purchase common stock originally issued under the acquired companies\' stock option plans. The Company\' stock options plans well the assumed stock option plans are hereby collectively referred the "Plans." Generally, the Company\' Board Directors grants options exercise price not less than the fair market value the Company\' common stock the date grant. Each outstanding option granted prior December , has term five years from the date vesting. Generally, outstanding options granted subsequent December , have term years from the date grant; however, certain nonqualified stock options were granted with terms and years. Subject Internal Revenue Service limitations, options granted under the Plans prior April and granted under certain assumed plans generally become exercisable immediately. Options granted under the Plans since April generally vest and become exercisable accordance with the following vesting schedule: % after year one, % after year two and % the end each quarter for years three through five. Shares issued upon exercise options that are unvested are restricted and subject repurchase the Company the exercise price upon AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) termination employment services and such restrictions lapse over the original vesting schedule. December , , approximately million shares restricted common stock were subject repurchase. Stock Option Activity The following table summarizes the Company\' stock option activity: NUMBER WEIGHTED AVERAGE SHARES EXERCISE PRICE -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) Balance January , ........................... , $ Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------- Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------- Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------- Balance December , ......................... , $ ======= December , , million shares common stock were available for future grant under the Plans. The following table summarizes information about options outstanding and exercisable December , : SHARES UNDERLYING OPTIONS OUTSTANDING SHARES UNDERLYING --------------------------------------------- OPTIONS EXERCISABLE WEIGHTED ------------------------------- SHARES AVERAGE SHARES UNDERLYING REMAINING WEIGHTED UNDERLYING WEIGHTED RANGE OPTIONS CONTRACTUAL AVERAGE OPTIONS AVERAGE EXERCISE PRICES OUTSTANDING LIFE EXERCISE PRICE EXERCISABLE EXERCISE PRICE --------------- -------------- ----------- -------------- -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) ( THOUSANDS) $ - $. , years $ , $ - , years , - , years , - , years - , years - , years - , years - , years - , years - years ------ ----- $ - $ , years $ , $ ====== ===== AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Deferred Compensation The Company recorded aggregate deferred compensation $ million, $ million, and $ million , and , respectively. , deferred compensation was recorded connection with acquisitions made the Company which restricted Company stock was issued employees acquired companies. Such stock considered compensation for services provided employees, and the related expense will recognized over the term the services provided, which generally four years. The amounts recorded and represent the difference between the grant price and the deemed fair value the Company\' common stock for shares subject options granted and . Shares underlying options granted below fair market value and the associated weighted average exercise price were , , and $ , and million and $ during the years ended December , and , respectively. The amortization deferred compensation charged operations over the vesting period the options, which typically five years. Total amortization expense recognized , and related deferred compensation was $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Pro Forma Disclosure The Company follows the intrinsic value method accounting for its stock options. Had compensation cost been recognized based the fair value the date grant for options granted , and , the pro forma amounts the Company\' net loss and net loss per share for the years ended December , , and would have been follows: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------------------------- ------------ ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported......................... $ ( , ) $( , ) $( , ) Net loss -- pro forma........................... ( , , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- reported...................................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- pro forma... ( ) ( ) ( ) The fair value for each option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option pricing model, assuming expected dividends and the following weighted average assumptions: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ Average risk-free interest rates................... % % % Average expected life ( years)................... Volatility( )...................................... % % % - --------------- ( ) Options granted prior the Company\' initial public offering and PlanetAll prior its merger with the Company were valued using the minimum value method and therefore volatility was not applicable. The weighted average fair value options granted during , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively, for options granted with exercise prices the current fair value the underlying stock. During and , some options were granted with exercise prices that were below the current fair value the underlying stock. The weighted average fair value options granted with exercise prices below the current fair value the underlying stock during and was $ and $ , respectively. Compensation expense that recognized providing pro forma disclosures might not representative the effects pro forma earnings for future years because SFAS . does not apply stock option grants made prior . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance December , , common stock reserved for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock options............................................... , Shares issuable upon conversion Convertible Subordinated Notes..................................................... , Shares issuable associated with acquisitions................ ------- Total.................................................. , ======= NOTE -- EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE The following represents the calculations for net loss per share: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ------------------------------------- ---------- ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported.................................. $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ========= ========= ======== Weighted average shares outstanding...................... , , , Pro forma adjustment for preferred stock................. -- -- , Weighted average common shares issued subject repurchase agreements.................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) --------- --------- -------- Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share.................................................. , , , ========= ========= ======== Basic and diluted loss per share......................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ========= ======== All the Company\' stock options (see Note ) are excluded from diluted loss per share since their effect antidilutive. NOTE -- STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION Stock-based compensation comprised the portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure key employees, which must classified compensation expense rather than component purchase price under generally accepted accounting principles. Stock-based compensation also includes stock-based charges such option-related deferred compensation recorded the Company\' initial public offering, well certain other compensation and severance arrangements. The following table shows the amounts stock-based compensation that would have been recorded under the following income statement categories had stock-based compensation not been separately stated the Consolidated Statements Operations: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------- -------- ------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Marketing and sales......................... $ , $ , $ Technology and content...................... , General and administrative.................. , ------- ------ ------ $ , $ , $ , ======= ====== ====== NOTE -- INCOME TAXES The Company did not provide any current deferred federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because has experienced operating losses since inception. The AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Company has provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. December , , the Company had net operating loss approximately $ billion related federal, foreign and state jurisdictions. Utilization net operating loss, which begin expire various times starting , may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. the extent that net operating losses, when realized, relate stock option deductions approximately $ million, the resulting benefits will credited stockholders\' equity. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets are approximately follows: DECEMBER , --------------------- --------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Net operating loss.................................... $ , $ , Depreciation and amortization......................... ( ) , Accrued expenses and valuation allowances............. , -- Other................................................. , , --------- -------- Total deferred tax assets...................... , , Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets........... ( , ) ( , ) --------- -------- Net deferred tax assets............................... $ -- $ -- ========= ======== NOTE -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN The Company has ( ) savings plan covering substantially all its employees. Eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. The Company matches employees\' contributions the discretion the Company\' Board Directors. date, the Company has not matched employee contributions the ( ) savings plan. NOTE -- SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company identifies operating segments based product line information, considering line maturity, within the United States and separately identifies its international operations operating segment. The financial results the Company\' operating segments are reported the Company\' Chief Operating Decision Maker the following groupings: Books; Music; DVD video; International; and Early-Stage Businesses and Other. The results for Books, Music and DVD video have been aggregated into one reportable segment due the similarity their economic characteristics. The measure profit loss used for each reportable segment income (loss) from operations before other operating expenses, including stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and merger, acquisition and investment-related costs. Assets are not allocated operating segments for reporting the Company\' Chief Operating Decision Maker and there are intersegment revenues transactions between reportable segments. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income follows: BOOKS, EARLY-STAGE MUSIC AND BUSINESSES DVD VIDEO INTERNATIONAL AND OTHER CONSOLIDATED ---------- ------------- ----------- ------------ ( THOUSANDS) : Revenues from external customers......... $ , , $ , $ , $ , , Gross profit (loss)...................... , , ( , ) , Segment loss............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other operating expenses................. -- -- -- ( , ) Net interest expense and other........... -- -- -- ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees............................. -- -- -- ( , ) ---------- Net loss................................. -- -- -- ( , ) ========== : Revenues from external customers......... , , -- , Gross profit............................. , , -- , Segment loss............................. ( , ) ( , ) -- ( , ) Other operating expenses................. -- -- -- ( , ) Interest expense, net.................... -- -- -- ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees............................. -- -- -- ( , ) ---------- Net loss................................. -- -- -- ( , ) ========== : Revenues from external customers......... , -- -- , Gross profit............................. , -- -- , Segment loss............................. ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Other operating expenses................. ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Interest income, net..................... , -- -- , Equity losses equity-method investees............................. -- -- -- -- ---------- ---------- Net loss................................. $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ========== ========== Sales customers outside the represented approximately %, % and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. individual foreign country geographical area customer accounted for more than % net sales any the periods presented. There were transfers between geographic areas during the years ended December , , . Long-lived assets, which are comprised primarily fixed assets, held foreign countries totaled $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Depreciation expense for the Books, Music and DVD video segment was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Depreciation expense for the International segment was $ million and $ million and , respectively. Depreciation expense for the Early-Stage Business and other segment was $ million . NOTE -- SUBSEQUENT EVENTS February , , the Company completed offering E690, , ($ , , February , ) % Convertible Subordinated Notes due , also known PEACS. The PEACS are convertible into the Company\' common stock initial conversion price E104 per share. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Interest the PEACS payable annually arrears February each year, commencing February , . The PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated all the Company\' existing and future senior indebtedness. The PEACS rank equally with the Convertible Subordinated Notes. The conversion price will reset February , and February , the lesser ( ) the then effective conversion price and ( ) the euro equivalent average the daily closing prices the Company\' common stock for the consecutive trading days immediately preceding such date. However, event will the conversion price reset lower than E84 per share. The exchange ratio between the dollar and the euro not fixed the indenture governing the PEACS, and, therefore, fluctuations that ratio may impact whether the conversion price will reset. Subject certain conditions, the PEACS may redeemed the Company\' option prior February , , whole part, the redemption price , per note, plus accrued and unpaid interest, the closing price for the Company\' common stock has exceeded % the initial conversion price for least trading days within period consecutive trading days ending the trading day prior the date mailing the notice redemption. Upon any redemption made prior February , , the Company will make additional cash payment with respect the PEACS called for redemption amount equal E206 per , note redeemed, less the amount any interest actually paid such PEACS prior the call for redemption. any time and after February , , the Company may redeem the notes, whole part, their principal amount plus any accrued but unpaid interest. Upon the occurrence "fundamental change" ( defined the indenture governing the PEACS) prior the maturity the notes, each holder thereof shall have the right require the Company redeem all any part such holder\' PEACS price % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited Statement Operations information for each quarter , and . The Company believes that the following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , ----------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER --------- --------- --------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales.................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit................................. , , , , Net loss..................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share ( )......... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share..................... , , , , YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share................ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share................ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , - --------------- ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. ITEM CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. PART III ITEM DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information regarding our executive officers required Part III, Item , set forth Item Part herein under the caption "Executive Officers and Directors." Information required Part III, Item , regarding our directors included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. Information relating compliance with Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, set forth the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information required Part III, Item , included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT Information required Part III, Item , included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information regarding certain our relationships and related transactions included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. PART ITEM EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) LIST DOCUMENTS FILED PART THIS REPORT: ( ) INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) INDEX FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES: Schedule Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) INDEX EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- Agreement and Plan Merger dated April , and among Amazon com, Inc., Acquisition, Inc., Alexa Internet and Brewster Kahle (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated June , ) Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference Amendment . the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Registration Rights Agreement entered into May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Note Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated Reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ) + Accept com Financial Services Corporation Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ) + Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Investor Rights Agreement, dated June , , and among the Company, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VIII, KPCB Information Sciences Zaibatsu Fund and Jeffrey . Bezos (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Offer Letter Employment Joseph Galli, . dated June , , amended and restated September , . + Offer Letter Employment Warren . Jenson dated September , , amended and restated September , . + Offer Letter Employment Jeff Wilke, dated September , . + Offer Letter Employment Richard Dalzell, dated August , . Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. List Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Financial Data Schedule. - --------------- + Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) REPORTS FORM - : October , , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing its financial results for the third quarter . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this Report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, March , . AMAZON COM, INC. : / / JEFFREY . BEZOS --------------------------------------- Jeffrey . Bezos Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this Report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities indicated March , . / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Chairman the Board and Chief Executive - -------------------------------------------- Officer (Principal Executive Officer) Jeffrey . Bezos / / JOSEPH GALLI, . President, Chief Operating Officer and - -------------------------------------------- Director Joseph Galli, . / / WARREN . JENSON Senior Vice President, Chief Financial - -------------------------------------------- Officer and Chief Accounting Officer Warren . Jenson (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) / / TOM . ALBERG Director - -------------------------------------------- Tom . Alberg / / SCOTT . COOK Director - -------------------------------------------- Scott . Cook / / . JOHN DOERR Director - -------------------------------------------- . John Doerr / / PATRICIA . STONESIFER Director - -------------------------------------------- Patricia . Stonesifer AMAZON COM, INC. SCHEDULE -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS INVENTORY VALUATION ALLOWANCE CHARGED/ BALANCE (CREDITED) INVENTORY BALANCE BEGINNING COSTS DISPOSED END YEAR ENDED PERIOD AND EXPENSES WRITTEN OFF PERIOD ---------- ---------- ------------------- ------------ ---------- ( THOUSANDS) December , ............... $ , $ , $( , ) $ , ====== ======= ======== ======= December , ............... $ $ , $ ( ) $ , ====== ======= ======== ======= December , ............... $ -- $ $ -- $ ====== ======= ======== ======= ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties.................................................. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings........................................... ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders......... PART ', 'item 5. ': "Market for the Registrant' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters......................................... ", 'item 6. ': 'Selected Consolidated Financial Data........................ ', 'item 7. ': "Management' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations................................... ", 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk... ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data................. ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements With Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure.................................... PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant.......... Item . Executive Compensation...................................... Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.................................................. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.............. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ......................................................... Signatures............................................................ PART ITEM . BUSINESS This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based current expectations, estimates and projections. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Forward-Looking Statements." GENERAL Amazon com, Inc. the world\' leading online retailer. have served over million customer accounts over countries. directly offer for sale millions distinct items categories such books, music, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement products. Through our marketplace services such Amazon com Auctions, zShops and sothebys amazon com, have created Web-based marketplaces where buyers and sellers can enter into transactions with respect wide range products. addition our Web site, currently have two internationally focused Web sites located www amazon and www amazon . have also invested and developed strategic commercial relationships with number selected -commerce companies. offer our customers superior shopping experience providing high value through selection, convenience, ease use, low prices, product information and intense focus customer service. are proven technology leader, having developed electronic commerce innovations such -Click technology, personalized shopping services, easy- -use search and browse features, secure payment protections and wireless access our stores. , significantly expanded our distribution capabilities worldwide with the addition eight new distribution centers comprising approximately four million square feet warehouse and distribution space. These new facilities increase our control over the distribution process and facilitate our ability deliver merchandise customers reliable and timely basis. Amazon com principally organized into three operating segments. The Books, Music and DVD/ video segment consists the Company\' online stores for books, music and DVD video. The Early-Stage Businesses and Other segment consists the Company\' online stores for electronics, software, video games, toys and home improvement products, marketplace services, and the Amazon com Commerce Network. The International segment consists all operations Germany and the . See Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated reference Item Part for additional information regarding our segments. Information contained the Company\' Web sites not part this Annual Report Form - . Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated Delaware. The Company\' principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. Amazon com completed its initial public offering May , and its common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." used herein, "Amazon com" includes Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. BUSINESS STRATEGY Amazon com seeks the world\' most customer-centric company where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy online. intend leverage our Internet platform expand the range products and services offered our customers. This platform consists strong brand recognition, large and growing customer base, innovative technology, extensive and sophisticated distribution capabilities and significant -commerce expertise. believe that this platform allows launch new -commerce businesses quickly, with high quality customer experience, economical incremental cost and good prospects for success. also believe that this platform allows expand the range products and services offered our customers through relationships with strategic partners terms that are attractive our customers, our strategic partners and . PRODUCTS AND SERVICES General Since our inception July , have rapidly expanded our product and service offerings and intend continue . Some our product and service offerings and their related launch dates are set forth below: PRODUCTS AND INTERNATIONAL PRODUCTS MARKETPLACE SERVICES LAUNCH DATE AND MARKETPLACE SERVICES LAUNCH DATE -------------------- ----------- ------------------------ ----------- Books July and German Books October Music June and German Music October DVD Video November and German Auctions November Auctions March and German zShops November Electronics July and German DVD Video March Toys July zShops October Home Improvement November Software November Video Games November sothebys amazon com November the past, have offered our products and services primarily through our online retail stores. March , introduced Amazon com Auctions, the first our marketplace services, which now also include sothebys amazon com and zShops. have recently entered into agreements expand the products and services offer allowing selected strategic partners sell products and services under -branded sections the Amazon com Web site. refer these new arrangements the Amazon com Commerce Network. Some the products and services sold through the Amazon com Commerce Network are described below under "Strategic Relationships." Our online retail stores currently consist books, music, DVD video, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement. With the exception books, which launched , and music and DVD video, which launched , launched all our online stores . anticipate new online store additions and beyond. Books, Music and DVD Video Segment. are the Internet\' number one books, number one music and number one DVD video retailer based upon our revenues. currently offer aggregate over million titles books, music and DVD video ( used herein, "titles" offered means the number items offered our catalogs). The Books, Music and DVD video segment had sales $ billion, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. During , continued enhance our Book Store expanding selection and improving the customer experience. created new specialty stores such our professional and technical store, expanded our editorial content through partnerships with experts certain fields and increased selection with the addition millions used and out- -print titles. During , our Music Store launched improved classical musical store, enhanced its product recommendation services and added new features promote independent artists via Amazon com Advantage. Amazon com became the first major online music retailer dedicate area its store free, full-length song downloads from established artists and major-label performers. Our DVD video Store enjoyed strong revenue growth . addition, our DVD video Store continued its integration with our Internet Movie Database (IMDb) Web site, leading online information source for movie enthusiasts, created and hosted the official Web site for "American Beauty," winner three Golden Globe( ) awards, and began streaming exclusive outtake footage from motion pictures such "The Blair Witch Project" and "Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged ." Early-Stage Businesses and Other Segment Other Retail. Amazon com\' other online retail stores consist electronics, software, video games, toys and home improvement. Marketplace Services. Amazon com\' marketplace services currently consist Amazon com Auctions, zShops and sothebys amazon com. Amazon com Auctions allows buyers and sellers conduct transactions with respect wide variety products easy use auction format. Amazon com zShops allows individuals and businesses offer popular well hard- -find items Amazon com\' customers. sothebys amazon com online auction site devoted art, antiques and collectibles. During the fourth quarter , these marketplace services surpassed combined million registered users and million listings. Since its launch November , sothebys amazon com has achieved average close rates, which are rates actual purchases customers bidding the site, excess % and average auction closing prices over $ . The participants our marketplace services can use our Amazon com Payments service, which allows individuals and small businesses accept credit card payments through Amazon com\' -Click payment feature, thus eliminating the problems associated with checks and money orders. Amazon com Commerce Network. have recently entered into agreements allow selected strategic partners promote their products and services our customers. These strategic partners are part the Amazon com Commerce Network and currently consist Greenlight com, online source for auto purchasing partnership with local dealerships; living com, online retailer home products and services; drugstore com, online retail and information source for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy; Audible, which delivers spoken audio over the Internet; Ashford com, online retailer luxury and premium products; and NextCard, Inc., online issuer consumer credit cards. believe that these arrangements will attractive Amazon com customers result the increase product and service selection available our site, our strategic partners result the potential growth their customer base and brand awareness, and result our ability offer customers expanded set products and services and the financial benefits receive. Revenue for the Early-Stage Businesses and Other segment was $ million. Amazon com had revenue from this segment previous years. International Segment. have two internationally focused Web sites located www amazon and www amazon . Each amazon and amazon was ranked the number one most visited -commerce site and the number most visited site overall the and Germany, respectively, according the Media Metrix ratings for Europe released January . Both these sites were launched October and currently have product and service offerings principally consisting books, music, DVD video, auctions and zShops. These international sites have the same look, feel and functionality the Web site, including -Click technology, personalized recommendations and product reviews, but offer content, products and services tailored the local market. The amazon Web site presented the German language. currently have distribution centers and customer service centers the and Germany. intend expand the product and service offerings these Web sites the future. Revenue for the International segment was $ million and $ million and , respectively. Amazon com had revenue for this segment . AMAZON COM WEB SITES The key features Amazon com\' Web sites include browsing, searching, useful product information, reviews, recommendations and personalization, broad selection, low prices, -Click technology, secure payment systems and availability and fulfillment. Our Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat purchases providing inviting and satisfying experience that encourages customers return frequently and interact with other customers. Browsing. The Amazon com sites offer visitors variety highlighted subject areas, styles and special features arranged simple, easy- -use fashion intended enhance product search and selection. addition, the Web sites present variety products and services and topical information. enhance the customers\' shopping experience and increase sales, feature variety products and services rotating basis throughout the stores. Searching. primary feature Amazon com Web sites their interactive, searchable catalogs millions books, music products, DVD videos, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement products. provide variety search tools find desired products based numerous search criteria. license some our catalog and other information from third parties. Reviews and Content. The Amazon com online stores offer numerous forms content enhance the customer\' shopping experience and encourage purchases. Various types content are available for particular titles, including cover art, synopses, annotations, reviews editorial staff and other customers, and interviews authors and artists. Recommendations and Personalization. Personalization features include greeting customers name, instant and personalized recommendations, personal notification services, and number other related features. Amazon com\' Wish List feature allows users create online wish list desired products and services that others can reference for gift-giving purposes. believe that personalization customer\' shopping experience our Web sites important element the value proposition offer customers, and intend continue enhance our personalized services. Other Web Site Services. The Amazon com Web sites provide other services make online shopping more enjoyable for our customers. our Gift Ideas section, feature seasonally appropriate selection gift ideas and services. our Community section, provide gathering place where customers can share product information and recommendations. Through our -Cards section, customers can send free animated electronic greeting cards friends and family. -Click Technology. Amazon com provides customers with streamlined ordering process using -Click technology. customer has previously activated -Click functionality, that customer can place order clicking one button without having fill out order form. The customer\' shipping and billing information automatically referenced our secure server. Secure Credit Card Payment. Amazon com seeks keep its customers\' information secure. Amazon com secure server software encrypts customers\' personal information, including credit card number, name and address, protect against interception the information travels over the Internet. Availability and Fulfillment. Many our products are available for shipment within hours, although some products take longer and some may not available all. Customers can select from variety delivery options, including overnight and various international shipping options, well gift-wrapping services. use -mail notify customers order status under various conditions and provide links shipping carriers that customers can track their shipments. seek provide rapid and reliable fulfillment customer orders and continue improve our speed availability and fulfillment. Remote Access. October , launched Amazon com Anywhere which allows Amazon com customers access the Amazon com site from hand-held wireless devices, such cellular phones and the Palm VII Connected Organizer, and utilize features such -Click purchasing and product-searching capabilities their wireless devices. Return Policy. For the days following receipt customer order, Amazon com provides full refund for any book its original condition, any Amazon com recommended book any condition, any unopened music , DVD video tape software, and any other merchandise item new condition, with its original packaging and accessories. STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS have entered into number strategic relationships with selected -commerce companies. These relationships have generally consisted our making, having the future right make, minority investment the companies and the entry into commercial agreements which vary scope from customer advertising activities and links recently announced deals involving the sale products and services -branded sections the Amazon com Web site. case exercise control over the investee. Certain our strategic relationships are listed below: COMPANY NATURE BUSINESS ------- ------------------ Ashford com.................... Online retailer luxury and premium products Audible........................ Internet-delivered spoken audio for -based listening playback devices Della com...................... Online service for gift registry, gift advice and personalized gift suggestions drugstore com.................. Online retail and information source for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy Gear com....................... Online source for brand-name sporting goods discount prices Greenlight com................. Online auto purchasing partnership with local dealerships HomeGrocer com................. Online grocery-shopping and home-delivery service Kozmo com...................... Online one-hour delivery service for entertainment and convenience products living com..................... Online retailer home products and services NextCard, Inc.................. Online issuer consumer credit cards Pets com....................... Online source for pet products, information and services Sothebys....................... Auction house cooperation with which maintain online auction site devoted art, antiques and collectibles believe that these investments and commercial arrangements are attractive for variety reasons. First, our customers receive access wider range products and services. Second, are able generate revenue from the strategic partners because help them sell the Amazon com customer base. Third, have the opportunity participate the future success our strategic partners result our ownership interest such companies. believe that our strategic partners are also well served result the opportunity grow their customer base quickly and build brand recognition. MARKETING AND PROMOTION Amazon com\' marketing strategy designed strengthen the Amazon com brand name, increase customer traffic the Amazon com Web sites, build customer loyalty, encourage repeat purchases and develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities. Amazon com creatively applies technology deliver personalized programs and services, well flexible merchandising. employ variety media, business development and promotional methods achieve these goals. also benefit from public relations activities well online and traditional advertising, including radio, television and print media. extend our market presence through our Associates Program, which enables associated Web sites make products available their audiences with order fulfillment Amazon com. February , , approximately , Web sites have enrolled the Associates Program. CUSTOMER SERVICE believe that our ability establish and maintain long-term relationships with our customers and encourage repeat visits and purchases depends, part, the strength our customer service operations. seek achieve frequent communication with and feedback from our customers continually improve the Amazon com experience. Users can contact customer service representatives via telephone and -mail hours day, days week. have automated certain tools used our customer service staff and have plans for further enhancements. December , , had customer service personnel working five customer service centers located Seattle and Tacoma, Washington; Slough, England; Regensburg, Germany; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. plan open additional customer service centers Huntington, West Virginia and The Hague, Netherlands . WAREHOUSING, INVENTORY, FULFILLMENT AND DISTRIBUTION significantly expanded our distribution infrastructure with the addition new distribution facilities Fernley, Nevada; Coffeyville, Kansas; Campbellsville, Kentucky; Lexington, Kentucky; McDonough, Georgia; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. also opened two new international distribution centers, one the and one Germany. aggregate basis, these eight new distribution centers comprised approximately four million square feet warehouse space. The geographic coverage these distribution centers and their capacity have dramatically improved our fulfillment capabilities and will allow continue increase our volume. The new distribution centers also give more control over the distribution process and facilitate our ability deliver merchandise customers reliable and timely basis. now have total distribution centers, including our facilities Seattle, Washington, and New Castle, Delaware. purchase products from network manufacturers, distributors, publishers and labels. For orders books, music, DVD video, software, video games and certain home improvement products that cannot filled from our inventory, our proprietary software selects the orders that can filled via electronic interfaces with vendors and, some cases, forwards the remaining orders our special orders group. This special orders group has developed customized information systems and consists trained ordering personnel who specialize hard- -find products. Under our arrangements with certain distributors, electronically ordered products often are shipped the distributor within hours receipt order from . With the addition new distribution centers and product lines, are required carry increased levels inventory order able meet customer demand and ship products customers timely basis. SEASONALITY Both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally declines during the summer. Sales the traditional retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics, software, video games and home improvement industries usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. The fourth quarter seasonal impact may even more pronounced our toys and electronics businesses. TECHNOLOGY have implemented numerous Web site management, search, customer interaction, recommendation, transaction-processing and fulfillment services and systems using combination our own proprietary technologies and commercially available, licensed technologies. Our current strategy focus our development efforts creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique our business and license acquire commercially developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. use set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory customer orders and ensuring proper shipment products customers based various ordering criteria. Our transaction-processing systems handle millions items, number different status inquiries, gift-wrapping requests and multiple shipment methods and allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing and charging customer credit cards. Amazon com Web sites also incorporate variety search and database tools. Systems administrators and network managers monitor and operate our Web sites, network operations and transaction-processing systems. The continued uninterrupted operation our Web sites and transaction-processing systems essential our business, and our Web site operations staff works make the sites reliable possible. use the services three Internet service providers obtain connectivity the Internet, both domestically and internationally, over multiple dedicated lines. COMPETITION The online commerce market new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics, software, video game and home improvement industries are intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include ( ) online vendors books, music, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics, software, video games, home improvement products and other products, ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines, that are involved online commerce, either directly collaboration with other retailers, ( ) online auction services, ( ) Web-based retailers using alternative distribution capabilities and ( ) publishers, distributors, manufacturers and physical-world retailers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order direct marketing. believe that the principal competitive factors our market include brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other Web site content, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use and our ability adapt changing conditions. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. may not able compete successfully against these and future competitors. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company regards its trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical its success, and relies trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with its employees, customers, partners and others protect its proprietary rights. The Company has been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents and copyrights and foreign governmental authorities. The Company also has applied for the registration other trademarks, service marks, copyrights and patents the and internationally. addition, the Company has filed and international patent applications covering certain its proprietary technology. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which the Company\' products and services are made available online. The Company has licensed the past, and expects that may license the future, certain its proprietary rights, such trademarks, patents, technology copyrighted material, third parties. EMPLOYEES December , , the Company employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees. The Company also employs independent contractors and temporary personnel. None the Company\' employees represented labor union, and the Company considers its employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel the Company\' industry intense, particularly for software development and other technical staff. The Company believes that its future success will depend part its continued ability attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could materially adversely affected. HAVE LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY UPON WHICH YOU CAN EVALUATE OUR BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS incorporated July and began offering products for sale our Web site July . Accordingly, have relatively short operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. You should consider our prospects light the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered online commerce companies. online commerce company, have rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model, face intense competition, must effectively manage our growth, and must respond quickly rapid changes customer demands and industry standards. may not succeed addressing these challenges and risks. HAVE ACCUMULATED DEFICIT AND ANTICIPATE FURTHER LOSSES have incurred significant losses since began doing business. December , , had accumulated deficit $ million. are incurring substantial operating losses and may continue incur such losses for the foreseeable future. These losses may significantly higher than our current losses. succeed, must invest heavily marketing and promotion and developing our product offerings and technology and operating infrastructure. addition, the expenses associated with our recent and future acquisitions and investments and interest expense related our outstanding notes will adversely affect our operating results. Our aggressive pricing programs have resulted relatively low product gross margins, need generate and sustain substantially higher revenues order become profitable. Our historical growth rates are not sustainable and our percentage growth rate will decrease the future. OUR SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT INDEBTEDNESS COULD AFFECT OUR BUSINESS have significant indebtedness. December , , had indebtedness under senior discount notes, convertible subordinated notes, capitalized lease obligations and other asset financing totaling approximately $ billion. With the sale our Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities( ), also known PEACS, February , incurred additional debt approximately $ million. may incur substantial additional debt the future. Our indebtedness could: - make difficult make principal and interest payments our debt, - make difficult obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements other purposes the future, - limit our flexibility planning for, reacting , changes our business and competition, and - make more difficult for react the event economic downturn. may not able meet our debt service obligations. our cash flow inadequate meet our obligations, may face substantial liquidity problems. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with other covenants our indebtedness, will default. This would permit our creditors accelerate the maturity our indebtedness. addition, the PEACS are denominated euros, not dollars, and the exchange ratio between the euro and the dollar not fixed the indenture governing the PEACS. Therefore, fluctuations the euro dollar exchange ratio may adversely affect , including potentially triggering certain reset provisions the PEACS that would lower the conversion price. CANNOT ACCURATELY FORECAST REVENUES OUR BUSINESS. MAY EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS. OUR BUSINESS SUBJECT SEASONAL FLUCTUATION. FUTURE FLUCTUATIONS OPERATING RESULTS REVENUE SHORTFALLS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SUCCESS Due our limited operating history and the unpredictability our industry, cannot accurately forecast our revenues. base our current and future expense levels our investment plans and estimates future revenues. Our expenses are large extent fixed. may not able adjust our spending quickly our revenues fall short our expectations. Further, may make pricing, purchasing, service, marketing, acquisition, investment financing decisions that could adversely affect our business results. Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate for many reasons, including: - our ability retain existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers\' demands, - our ability acquire merchandise, manage our inventory and fulfill orders, - changes gross margins our current and future products, services and markets, - our ability introduce, and the timing introductions and our competitors , popular books, music selections, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics products, software, video games, home improvement products and other products services, and our ability properly anticipate demand, - purchases large quantities toys, electronics products, software, video games, home improvement products and other products, particularly advance the holidays, for which demand may not materialize, - introduction our new Web sites, services and products those competitors, - termination Web sites, service offerings and product sales that determine are not viable, - changes usage the Internet and online services and consumer acceptance the Internet and online commerce, - timing upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure, - the level traffic our Web sites, - the effects acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability successfully integrate those acquisitions and business combinations, - technical difficulties, system downtime Internet brownouts, - the mix books, music products, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics products, software, video games, home improvement products and other products sell, - the mix revenues derived from products compared services, - our inability prevent fraud perpetrated third parties through credit card transactions, Amazon com Payments transactions, and auction and zShops transactions, - our level merchandise and vendor returns, and - disruptions service common shipping carriers due strikes otherwise. Both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally declines during the summer. Sales the traditional retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics and home improvement industries usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. The fourth quarter seasonal impact may even more pronounced our toys, electronics and video games businesses. For these reasons, you should not rely period- -period comparisons our financial results forecast our future performance. Our future operating results may fall below the expectations securities analysts investors, which would likely cause the trading price our common stock decline. COULD LOSE SUBSTANTIAL MARKET SHARE NOT KEEP WITH THE INTENSE COMPETITION THE ONLINE COMMERCE MARKET The online commerce market new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics, software, video game and home improvement industries are intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include: - online vendors books, music, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics, software, video games, home improvement products, and other products, - number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines, that are involved online commerce, either directly collaboration with other retailers, - online auction services, - Web-based retailers using alternative distribution capabilities, and - publishers, distributors, manufacturers and physical-world retailers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order direct marketing. believe that the principal competitive factors our market include brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other Web site content, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use and our ability adapt changing conditions. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing inventory policies. They also can devote more resources technology development and marketing than can. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Competition the Internet and online commerce markets will intensify. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may use their market power expand into the markets which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies may increase the competitive pressures online retailers. The nature the Internet electronic marketplace may facilitate competitive entry and comparison shopping and render inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. For example, "shopping agent" technologies permit customers quickly compare our prices with those our competitors. This increased competition may reduce our operating margins, diminish our market share impair the value our brand. MAY EXPERIENCE SYSTEM INTERRUPTIONS, WHICH AFFECT THE VOLUME ORDERS FULFILL AND THEREFORE OUR REVENUES, AND MAY AFFECT OUR BRAND NAME, AND OUR SYSTEMS ARE NOT FULLY INTEGRATED AND ARE NOT REDUNDANT Customer access our Web sites directly affects the volume orders fulfill and thus affects our revenues. experience occasional system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. These interruptions will continue. need add additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and network infrastructure accommodate both increased traffic our Web sites and increased sales volume and fully integrate our systems. Without these upgrades, may face additional system interruptions, slower response times, diminished customer service, impaired quality and speed order fulfillment and delays our financial reporting. cannot accurately project the rate timing any increases traffic sales volume our Web sites and, therefore, the integration and timing these upgrades are uncertain. addition, our inventory management systems are not fully integrated with our financial reporting systems, and significant amount manual effort may necessary reconcile our inventory and other financial accounts. maintain substantially all our computer and communications hardware single leased facility Seattle, Washington. Our systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. not have backup systems formal disaster recovery plan, and may not have sufficient business interruption insurance compensate for losses from major interruption. Computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins and similar disruptions could cause system interruptions, delays and loss critical data and could significantly diminish our reputation and brand name and prevent from providing services and accepting and fulfilling customer orders. OUR PLANNED GROWTH WILL CONTINUE PLACE SIGNIFICANT STRAIN OUR MANAGEMENT, OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will further expand our operations address potential growth our product and service offerings and customer base. This expansion will continue place significant strain our management, operational and financial resources. need successfully execute our expansion our distribution centers and customer service centers and continue improve our transaction-processing and operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. also need expand, train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel successfully identify, manage and exploit market opportunities, which may limit our growth. FACE SIGNIFICANT INVENTORY RISK ARISING OUT CHANGES CONSUMER DEMAND AND PRODUCT CYCLES. FACE ADDITIONAL INVENTORY RISKS BECAUSE OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ARE NOT WELL INTEGRATED AND BECAUSE CERTAIN OUR OPERATIONAL PROCESSES ARE MANUAL are exposed significant inventory risks result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and changes consumer tastes with respect our products. order successful, must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking understocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling new product, particularly difficult forecast product demand accurately. These issues are particularly pronounced with respect our inventory products that are based current trends, like toys. failure optimize inventory will harm our shipping margins requiring make partial shipments from one more locations. may also exposed inventory risk are unable negotiate satisfactory terms and conditions with our manufacturers, distributors and other suppliers. The acquisition certain types inventory, inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and pre-payment, and such inventory may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels products, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. are also exposed significant inventory risks because our inventory forecasting, purchasing, receiving, reconciliation, accounting and payment systems are not well developed and are not well integrated. The lack systems integration makes difficult and manual process receive inventory, reconcile inventory invoices purchase orders, account for inventory efficiently, request refunds from suppliers and pay supplier invoices. addition, certain manual operational processes further complicate our ability manage inventory efficiently. Any one the factors set forth above may require mark-down write-off inventory. Substantial inventory mark-downs write-offs will decrease gross margins. the fourth quarter , incurred inventory-related charges which significantly decreased our gross margins. ENTERING NEW BUSINESS AREAS WILL REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT EXPENSE AND COULD STRAIN MANAGEMENT, FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RESOURCES intend expand our operations promoting new complementary products, services sales formats and expanding our product service offerings. This will require significant additional expense and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. cannot expect benefit these new markets from the first- -market advantage that experienced the online book market. Our gross margins these new business areas may lower than our existing business activities. addition, may have limited experience these new business areas. may not able expand our operations cost-effective timely manner. Any new business that our customers not receive favorably could damage our reputation and brand name. NOT SUCCESSFULLY EXPAND AND OPERATE OUR DISTRIBUTION CENTERS, OUR BUSINESS COULD HARMED not successfully expand our distribution operations accommodate peak volumes, our distribution centers fail operate properly, could significantly limit our ability meet customer demand. During the fiscal year ended December , , added distribution centers Nevada, Georgia, Kentucky, Kansas, North Dakota, Germany and the . Most these distribution centers are will highly automated, and have had limited experience with automated distribution centers. The two distribution centers operated prior , Washington and Delaware, are manually operated. are not experienced coordinating and managing distribution operations geographically distant locations. Because difficult predict sales increases and lead times for developing distribution centers are long, may over-expand our facilities, which may result excess inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. also need retain flexibility within our distribution and logistics network, including the ability manage the operational challenges shipping non-uniform and heavy products part the fulfillment toy, electronics, home improvement and other product orders. THE DISPROPORTIONATE AMOUNT OUR NET SALES THAT EXPECT REALIZE DURING THE FOURTH QUARTER OUR FISCAL YEAR PLACES SIGNIFICANT STRAIN OUR BUSINESS Because expect disproportionate amount our net sales realized during the holiday season the fourth quarter our fiscal year, face significant risks the fourth quarter. may fail accurately predict the optimal inventory levels our distribution centers for the fourth quarter. not stock popular products sufficient amounts during the fourth quarter and fail meet customer demand, could significantly impact our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory mark-downs write-offs, which could reduce gross margins. the fourth quarter , incurred inventory-related charges, which significantly decreased our gross margins. failure optimize inventory our distribution centers will harm our shipping margins requiring make partial shipments from one more locations. addition, may experience decline our shipping margins due complimentary upgrades and split-shipments necessary ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. too many customers access our Web sites within short period time due increased holiday demand, may experience system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services, and may also harm our brand. addition, may unable adequately staff our distribution and customer service centers during these peak periods. Finally, our new automated distribution centers may fail operate properly, which will interfere with our ability meet customer demand. MAY NOT SUCCESSFUL OUR EFFORTS EXPAND INTO INTERNATIONAL MARKETS plan expand our presence international markets. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing and distributing products services for these markets and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. will costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally, and develop localized Web sites and stores and other systems. may not succeed our efforts these countries. Our revenues from international activities may not offset the expense establishing and maintaining foreign operations and therefore may never profitable. Our international sales and operations are subject number risks inherent selling and operating abroad, including, but not limited , risks with respect : - currency exchange rate fluctuations, - local economic and political conditions, - disruptions capital and trading markets, - restrictive governmental actions (such restrictions transfer funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs), - changes legal regulatory requirements, - import export licensing requirements, - limitations the repatriation funds, - difficulty obtaining distribution and support, - nationalization, - laws and policies the affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and - tax and other laws. the international online commerce market continues grow, competition this market will likely intensify. may have compete with local companies who understand the local markets better than and who have better local brand name recognition than . addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate the Internet other online services such areas content, privacy, network security, encryption distribution. This may affect our ability conduct business internationally. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth international markets. OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER ARE UNSUCCESSFUL MAKING AND INTEGRATING BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND STRATEGIC ALLIANCES plan continue expand our operations and market presence entering into business combinations, investments, joint ventures other strategic alliances with other companies. These transactions create risks such : - difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel combined companies, - disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses and other market developments, - problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel, - expenses associated with amortization goodwill and other purchased intangible assets, - additional operating losses and expenses acquired businesses, - impairment relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners, and - losses that may arise from our equity investments. may not succeed addressing these risks. part our business strategy, intend increase the number our strategic investments and alliances with online commerce businesses and other companies pursuant which they pay licensing other fees, such fees establish -branded stores our Web sites participate our auction zShops services. While believe these arrangements will have positive impact our results operations, particularly our gross margins, this strategy may not successful and these transactions create additional risk. For example, for strategic alliances where create -branded store our Web site, may experience difficulty integrating the other company\' systems create seamless customer experience, the other company may unable pay amounts owed the future and may suffer harm our brand the other company fails meet our standards for customer service, Web site performance and privacy, which would decrease customer satisfaction with our Web sites. addition, because often take portion our fees for establishing -branded store shares capital stock the other company, may never realize the full value that portion the fee. may not able make business combinations and strategic investments that are acceptable . not, our gross margins may not improve and may even deteriorate. addition, the businesses have acquired, and the future may acquire, may incur operating losses. MAY NOT ABLE ADAPT QUICKLY ENOUGH CHANGING CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS AND INDUSTRY STANDARDS Technology the online commerce industry changes rapidly. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology obsolete. succeed, must enhance our Web site responsiveness, functionality and features, acquire and license leading technologies, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technology and respond technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices cost-effective and timely basis. THE LOSS OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our chief executive officer and chairman the board. not have "key person" life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. RELY SMALL NUMBER SUPPLIERS; OUR BUSINESS WOULD HARMED OUR CURRENT SUPPLIERS STOP SELLING MERCHANDISE ACCEPTABLE TERMS Although increased our direct purchasing from manufacturers during , approximately % all our purchases during were from three major vendors, Ingram Book Group, Baker & Taylor, Inc. and Valley Media, Inc., from which purchase book, music, DVD and video titles. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. Our current vendors may stop selling merchandise acceptable terms. may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. MAY NOT ABLE ACQUIRE MAINTAIN APPROPRIATE DOMAIN NAMES hold rights various Web domain names, including "Amazon com," "Amazon ," "Amazon " and "zShops com." Governmental agencies typically regulate domain names. These regulations are subject change. may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. THE LONG-TERM VIABILITY THE INTERNET MEDIUM FOR COMMERCE NOT CERTAIN Consumer use the Internet medium for commerce recent phenomenon and subject high level uncertainty. While the number Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough meet the increased levels demand. The increased use the Internet medium for commerce raises concerns regarding Internet security, reliability, pricing, accessibility and quality service. use the Internet does not continue grow, grows slower rate than anticipate, the necessary Internet infrastructure complementary services are not developed effectively support growth that may occur, our business would harmed. MAY SUBJECT PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS PEOPLE PROPERTY ARE HARMED THE PRODUCTS SELL enter new lines business, may increasingly sell products, such toys and home improvement products, that may increase our exposure product liability claims relating personal injury, death property damage caused such products, and that may require take actions such product recalls. maintain liability insurance, but cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our vendor agreements with our suppliers not indemnify from product liability. GOVERNMENT REGULATION INTERNET COMMERCE EVOLVING AND UNFAVORABLE CHANGES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS are subject general business regulations and laws regulations regarding taxation and access online commerce. These laws regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. Regulatory authorities may adopt specific laws and regulations governing the Internet online commerce. These regulations may cover taxation, user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, and characteristics and quality products and services. Changes consumer protection laws also may impose additional burdens companies conducting business online, both the and internationally. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply the Internet and online commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. addition, many states currently regulate "auctions" and "auctioneers" conducting auctions and may regulate online auction services. States may also regulate consumer- -consumer fixed price online markets, like zShops. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. COULD REQUIRED COLLECT TAXES THE PRODUCTS SELL accordance with current industry practice, not currently collect sales taxes other taxes with respect shipments goods into states other than Washington. addition, collect Value Added Tax, VAT, for products that are ordered www amazon and www amazon and shipped into European Union member countries. Our new distribution center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion those networks, along with other aspects our evolving business, may result additional sales and other tax obligations. One more states foreign countries may seek impose sales other tax collection obligations out- -jurisdiction companies which engage electronic commerce . successful assertion one more states foreign countries that should collect sales other taxes the sale merchandise could result substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business. Recent federal legislation limits the imposition state and local taxes Internet-related sales. , Congress passed the Internet Tax Freedom Act, which places three-year moratorium state and local taxes Internet access, unless such tax was already imposed prior October , , and discriminatory taxes electronic commerce. There possibility that Congress may not renew this legislation . Congress chooses not renew this legislation, state and local governments would free impose new taxes electronically purchased goods. The imposition taxes goods sold over the Internet state and local governments would create administrative burdens for and could reduce one competitive advantage that the purchase goods over the Internet now possesses. The European Commission currently evaluating its VAT position electronic commerce transactions. possible that future VAT legislation the European Union changes our business model may result additional VAT collection obligations and administrative burdens. COULD LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL FRAUDULENT ACTIVITIES USERS OUR AUCTION AND ZSHOPS SERVICES may unable prevent users our auction and zShops services from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods unlawful manner. may face civil criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities our auction and zShops users. Any costs incur result liability relating the sale unlawful goods, the unlawful sale goods, the fraudulent receipt goods the fraudulent collection payments could harm our business. running our auction and zShops services, rely sellers goods make accurate representations and provide reliable delivery and buyers pay the agreed purchase price. For our auction and zShops services, not take responsibility for delivery payment goods and while can suspend terminate the accounts users auctions zShops who fail fulfill their delivery obligations other users, cannot require users make payments deliver goods. not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded other users except through our guarantee program. Under the guarantee program, fraudulent activities our auction and zShops users, such the fraudulent receipt goods and the fraudulent collection payments, may create liability for . addition, are aware that governmental agencies are currently investigating the conduct online auctions. COULD LIABLE FOR BREACHES SECURITY OUR WEB SITE AND FRAUDULENT ACTIVITIES USERS OUR AMAZON COM PAYMENTS PROGRAM fundamental requirement for electronic commerce the secure transmission confidential information over public networks. Although have developed systems and processes prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure mitigate such fraud breaches may impact our financial results. The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. guarantee payments made through Amazon com Payments certain limits for both buyers and sellers, and may unable prevent users Amazon com Payments from fraudulently receiving goods when payment may not made seller fraudulently collecting payments when goods may not shipped buyer. Our liability risk will increase larger fraction our sellers use Amazon com Payments. Any costs incur result liability because our guarantee payments made through Amazon com Payments otherwise could harm our business. addition, the functionality Amazon com Payments depends certain third-party vendors delivering services. these vendors are unable unwilling provide services, Amazon com Payments will not viable (and our businesses that use Amazon com Payments may not viable). COULD SUBJECT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INFORMATION POSTED OUR WEB SITE THIRD PARTIES Our Web site features customer reviews the products sell and customer ratings sellers our auctions and zShops sites. Although these reviews and ratings are generated customers and not , possible that claim could made against for reviews and ratings posted our Web site. become liable for information posted our Web site customers, could harmed and may forced discontinue certain services. MAY NOT ABLE ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS MAY ACCUSED INFRINGING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS THIRD PARTIES regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others protect our proprietary rights. have been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents and copyrights and foreign governmental authorities. also have applied for the registration some other trademarks, service marks, copyrights and patents the and internationally. addition, have filed and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available online. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Third parties that license our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patented technology copyrighted material, may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. addition, the steps take protect our proprietary rights may not adequate and third parties may infringe misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that infringed their proprietary rights. have been subject claims, and expect continue subject legal proceedings and claims, regarding alleged infringement our licensors and the trademarks and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the imposition damages that must pay. may need obtain license from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such license may not available terms acceptable , all. CANNOT SURE THAT THE YEAR PROBLEM WILL NOT AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Thus far, have had significant problems related year issues associated with the computer systems, software, other property and equipment use. However, cannot guarantee that the year problem will not adversely affect our business, operating results financial condition some point the future. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Year Implications." OUR STOCK PRICE HIGHLY VOLATILE The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. For example, during the fiscal year ended December , ( adjusted for the -for- split our common stock January , and the -for- split our common stock September , ), the reported sale price our common stock the NASDAQ National Market was high $ and low $ per share. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : - quarterly variations operating results, - announcements innovations, - new products, services and strategic developments our competitors, business combinations and investments our competitors, - changes our operating expense levels losses, - changes financial estimates and recommendations securities analysts, - performance other online commerce companies, and - news reports relating trends the Internet, book, music, DVD video, toys, electronics, software, video game, home improvement products, auctions, consumer- -consumer fixed price online markets, other product service industries. Any these events may cause our stock price fall, which may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. addition, the stock market general and the market prices for Internet-related companies particular have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated such companies\' operating performance. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price our common stock regardless our operating performance. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS The following tables set forth certain information regarding the executive officers and Directors the Company March , : EXECUTIVE OFFICERS NAME AGE POSITION ---- --- -------- Jeffrey . Bezos............................ Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Joseph Galli, ............................ President and Chief Operating Officer Warren . Jenson............................ Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer John . Risher.............................. Senior Vice President and General Manager, Retail Group Diego Piacentini............................ Senior Vice President and General Manager, International Richard . Dalzell.......................... Vice President and Chief Information Officer Mark . Britto.............................. Vice President, Strategic Alliances Jeffrey . Wilke............................ Vice President and General Manager, Operations Mark . Peek................................ Vice President, Finance JEFFREY . BEZOS. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President from founding until June and Treasurer and Secretary from May March . From December June , . Bezos was employed . Shaw & ., Wall Street investment firm, becoming Senior Vice President . From April December , . Bezos was employed Bankers Trust Company, becoming Vice President February . . Bezos also director drugstore com, inc. . Bezos received his . Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University. JOSEPH GALLI, . . Galli joined Amazon com June President and Chief Operating Officer. From until June , . Galli held variety positions with The Black and Decker Corporation, culminating president Black and Decker\' Worldwide Power Tools and Accessories. president, supervised the marketing, sales, manufacturing, engineering, finance, MIS, purchasing and product service departments. . Galli received . Business Administration from the University North Carolina and . from Loyola College. WARREN . JENSON. . Jenson joined Amazon com September Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. Before joining Amazon com, . Jenson was the Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President for Delta Air Lines from April September . From September April , . Jenson served Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President for the National Broadcasting Company (NBC), subsidiary General Electric, and participated efforts develop MSNBC, the cable-Internet joint news venture between NBC and Microsoft. . Jenson earned his Masters Accountancy -- Business Taxation, and . Accounting from Brigham Young University. JOHN . RISHER. . Risher has served Amazon com Senior Vice President and General Manager, Retail Group since February . . Risher joined Amazon com February Vice President Product Development. . Risher served Senior Vice President Product Development from November February and Vice President Product Development from February November . From July February , . Risher held variety marketing and project management positions Microsoft Corporation, including Team Manager for Microsoft Access and Founder and Product Unit Manager for Investor, Microsoft\' Web site for personal investment. . Risher received his . Comparative Literature from Princeton University and his . from Harvard Business School. DIEGO PIACENTINI. . Piacentini joined Amazon com Senior Vice President and General Manager, International February . From April until joining Amazon com, . Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager, Europe Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple Computer\' operations Europe, the Middle East and Africa. From April April , . Piacentini was European Sales Director Apple Computer, Inc. From May until April , . Piacentini was General Manager Apple Computer\' Italy operations, and before that, from September May , . Piacentini was Apple Computer\' Sales Director for Italy. . Piacentini joined Apple Computer . Prior that time held financial management position Fiatimpresit Italy. . Piacentini received degree Economics from Bocconi University Milan, Italy . RICHARD . DALZELL. . Dalzell joined Amazon com August Vice President and Chief Information Officer. From February August , . Dalzell held several management positions within the Information Systems Division Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., including Vice President Information Systems from January August . From , . Dalzell acted the Business Development Manager for -Systems, Inc. Prior joining -Systems, Inc. served seven years the United States Army teleprocessing officer. . Dalzell received . Engineering from the United States Military Academy, West Point. MARK . BRITTO. . Britto has served Vice President, Strategic Alliances since August . From June August , . Britto served Director Business Development. . Britto joined Amazon com June part the acquisition Accept com, which -founded October and served Vice President. From October through October , . Britto was Executive Vice President Credit Policy FirstUSA Bank, where was responsible for their credit risk management practice. Prior that, served Senior Vice President Risk Management NationsBank. . Britto received . Operations Research and . Industrial Engineering and Operations Research from the University California Berkeley. JEFFREY . WILKE. . Wilke has served Vice President and General Manager, Operations since September . Previously, . Wilke held variety positions AlliedSignal from , including Vice President and General Manager the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit from March September and General Manager the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from August February . Prior his employment AlliedSignal, was information technology consultant with Andersen Consulting. received . chemical engineering from Princeton University and has . and Master Science chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute Technology. MARK . PEEK. . Peek joined Amazon com March Vice President, Finance, and has been selected become Chief Accounting Officer beginning April , . Prior joining Amazon com, . Peek was, since , partner the independent public accounting firm Deloitte & Touche LLP where served lead partner for number that firm\' multi-national technology clients. . Peek joined Deloitte & Touche . . Peek received . Accounting, Economics and International Business from Minnesota State University. BOARD DIRECTORS NAME AGE POSITION ---- --- -------- Jeffrey . Bezos........................ Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Joseph Galli, ........................ President and Chief Operating Officer Tom . Alberg........................... Managing Director Madrona Venture Group, . Scott . Cook........................... Chairman the Executive Committee Intuit, Inc. . John Doerr........................... General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Patricia . Stonesifer.................. -Chair the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company does not own any real estate. Its principal office facilities the are located several leased facilities Seattle, Washington under leases that expire August through September . The Company\' office facilities the comprise total approximately , square feet. The Company\' warehousing and fulfillment operations for its Books, Music and DVD video segment and its Early-Stage Businesses and Other segment are housed eight distribution centers located Seattle, Washington; New Castle, Delaware; Fernley, Nevada; Lexington, Kentucky; Campbellsville, Kentucky; McDonough, Georgia; Coffeyville, Kansas and Grand Forks, North Dakota. These distribution centers comprise total approximately million square feet. The Seattle and Delaware distribution center leases expire October and October , respectively, and the remaining distribution center leases expire from through . The Company leases additional properties Europe for its International segment, including approximately , square feet office space Germany and the and distribution center each country with combined , square feet available space. The subsidiary will begin leasing additional , square feet distribution center space Marston Gate, England April . The lease for the German distribution center, located Bad Hersfeld, Germany, expires December . The lease for the new Marston Gate distribution center expires March . ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS January and February , three federal class action lawsuits were filed against the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Alexa Internet. The lawsuits, entitled Newby . Alexa Internet and Amazon com, Inc. (filed January , , the Northern District California), Bieles . Alexa Internet and Amazon com (filed January , , the Northern District California), and Supnick . Amazon com and Alexa Internet (filed February , , the Western District Washington), allege that Alexa Internet\' tracking and storage Internet Web usage paths violates federal and state statutes prohibiting computer fraud, unfair competition, and unauthorized interception private electronic communications, well common law proscriptions against trespass and invasion privacy. The complaints seek actual, statutory, and punitive damages, well restitution, behalf all users Alexa Internet\' Web navigation service, well injunctive relief prohibiting Alexa Internet from tracking and storing such information disclosing third parties. Although the Company disputes the allegations wrongdoing these complaints, there can assurance that the Company will prevail these lawsuits. addition, the Federal Trade Commission has requested information and documents regarding Alexa Internet\' practices and has opened formal investigative file connection with its inquiry. The Company cooperating voluntarily with the Federal Trade Commission\' investigation. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted for vote stockholders the Company during the fourth quarter the year ended December , . PART ITEM . MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT\' COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Market Information The common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. HIGH LOW ------- ------ Year ended December , First Quarter........................................... $ $ Second Quarter.......................................... Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... Year ended December , First Quarter........................................... $ $ Second Quarter.......................................... Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... The prices this table have been adjusted reflect the -for- stock split effected June , , the -for- stock split effected January , , and the -for- stock split effected September , . Holders February , , there were , stockholders record the common stock, although there much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. intend retain all future earnings finance future growth and, therefore, not anticipate paying any cash dividends the foreseeable future. addition, are restricted from paying cash dividends under our senior discount notes. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources." Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. ITEM . SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and the information contained herein Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations." Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------------------------------- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) STATEMENT OPERATIONS DATA( ): Net sales.................................... $ , , $ , $ , $ , $ Cost sales................................ , , , , , ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Gross profit................................. , , , , Operating expenses: Marketing and sales........................ , , , , Technology and content..................... , , , , General and administrative................. , , , , Stock-based compensation................... , , , -- Amortization goodwill and other intangibles.............................. , , -- -- -- Merger, acquisition and investment-related costs.................................... , , -- -- -- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Total operating expenses............... , , , , ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Loss from operations......................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Interest income.............................. , , , Interest expense............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( ) -- Other income, net............................ , -- -- -- -- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Net interest income (expense) and other............................... ( , ) ( , ) , ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Loss before equity losses equity-method investees.................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Equity losses equity-method investees.................................. ( , ) ( , ) -- -- -- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Net loss..................................... $ ( , ) $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) $ ( ) ========== ========= ======== ======= ======== Basic and diluted loss per share( ).......... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========== ========= ======== ======= ======== Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share( ).................. , , , , , ========== ========= ======== ======= ======== DECEMBER , ----------------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- -------- ------ ------ ( THOUSANDS) BALANCE SHEET DATA( ): Cash.............................................. $ , $ , $ , $ $ Marketable securities............................. , , , , Working capital................................... , , , , Total assets...................................... , , , , , , Long-term debt.................................... , , , , -- -- Stockholders\' equity.............................. , , , , - --------------- ( ) Reflects restatement for pooling interests. See Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ( ) For further discussion loss per share see Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM . MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . This Act provides "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements encourage companies provide prospective information about themselves long they identify these statements forward looking and provide meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results differ from the projected results. All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward looking. use words such "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "future" and "intends" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\' current expectations and are inherently uncertain. The Company\' actual results may differ significantly from management\' expectations. This following discussion includes forward-looking statements regarding expectations future profitability the books business, gross margin, improvement operating loss and sales, all which are inherently difficult predict. Actual results could differ significantly for variety reasons, including the rate growth the Internet and online commerce, the amount that the Company invests new business opportunities and the timing those investments, customer spending patterns, the mix products sold customers, the mix revenues derived from product sales compared services, risks inventory management, and risks distribution and fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company\' actual results differ significantly from management\' expectations, are described greater detail the section entitled "Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results," which, along with the following discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\' expectations. RESULTS OPERATIONS Net Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE ---------- -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Net sales................... $ , , % $ , % $ , Net sales include the selling price products sold , net returns and gift certificate discounts, and also include outbound shipping charges. Shipping revenue was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Net sales also include commissions from auctions and zShops transactions, which include sales commissions, placement fees and fees from payment service transactions. Growth net sales and reflects significant increase units sold due the growth our customer base, repeat purchases from existing customers, increased international sales, and the introduction new product offerings. These new product offerings include music and DVD video June and November , respectively, toys and electronics July and home improvement, software and video games November . increased our issuance promotional gift certificates customers promote new product lines, however, which partially offset such growth net sales. The Company had approximately million, million and million cumulative customer accounts December , , and , respectively. The percentage orders repeat customers increased from % the fourth quarter % the fourth quarter . The increase net sales was also partially due the launch the and German focused Web sites October . Sales customers outside the represented approximately %, % and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. Gross Profit % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Gross profit.................. $ , % $ , % $ , Gross margin.................. % % % Gross profit consists net sales less the cost sales, which consists the cost merchandise sold customers, well inbound and outbound shipping costs and the cost tangible supplies used package product for shipment customers. Gross profit increased and absolute dollars, reflecting the Company\' increased sales volume. Gross margin decreased due the introduction new product lines, particularly toys and electronics, and inventory-related charges approximately $ million incurred the fourth quarter . also increased our issuance promotional gift certificates customers promote these new product lines, which decreased net sales and, therefore, gross margin. Additionally, realized lower shipping margins due increase partial shipments satisfy holiday demand and because split shipments from one more locations, which was caused our failure optimize inventory our distribution centers. Gross margin increased compared result improvements product costs through improved supply chain management, including increased direct purchasing from publishers, well higher overall shipping margins. These two factors more than offset the impact aggressive product pricing and lower music and video margins. noted above, outbound shipping costs are included cost sales. Gross profit from shipping, which represents shipping revenues less outbound shipping costs, was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. expect our overall gross margin approach % for the first quarter and for the year. believe that offering our customers attractive prices essential component our business strategy. For example, offer everyday discounts % every book the New York Times bestseller list, % hundreds thousands titles and % certain "special value" editions. may the future expand increase the discounts offer our customers and may otherwise alter our pricing structure and policies manner that may adversely impact gross profit and gross margin. intend continue expand our operations promoting new complementary products sales formats and expanding the breadth and depth our product and service offerings. Gross margins attributable new business areas may different from those associated with our existing business activities. the extent such product lines become larger components our sales, would expect corresponding impact overall product gross margin. believe that the Amazon com Commerce Network will tend increase gross margins the future because the revenue associated with the activities conducted Amazon com Commerce Network generates substantially higher gross profit than the Company\' sale products. See "Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results -- Our business could suffer are unsuccessful making and integrating business combinations and strategic alliances." Organizations responsible for promulgating accounting standards are currently reviewing the financial statement classification , and accounting for, fulfillment and order processing costs and other items number -commerce companies, including Amazon com. The review these accounting organizations may lead new accounting standards that could require that some all our fulfillment and order processing costs classified costs sales. currently include these costs Marketing and Sales. These new standards could also require capitalize certain our fulfillment and order processing costs inventory. currently expense these costs incurred. will adjust our accounting and classification fulfillment and order processing costs required accounting organizations the SEC. Marketing and Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Marketing and sales........... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales....... % % % Marketing and sales expenses consist advertising, promotional and public relations expenditures, credit card fees and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, selling and fulfillment activities. Fulfillment costs included marketing and sales expenses represent those costs incurred operating and staffing distribution and customer service centers, including costs attributable receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customers\' orders for shipment; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Marketing and sales expenses increased and primarily due increased payroll and related costs associated with fulfilling customer demand, increases our advertising and promotional expenditures the , Germany and the , and increased credit card fees resulting from higher sales. The increase was further attributable increased advertising during the holiday season and the promotion the new toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement stores. The increase was also attributable the entry into music and video sales and the launch new Web sites targeting Germany and the . Marketing and sales expenses increased percentage net sales compared primarily due increases fulfillment expenses associated with our expansion our distribution center network and customer service staff during . Marketing and sales expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. intend continue our advertising and marketing activities the future and expect that such expenditures will continue increase absolute dollars, but, percentage sales, will likely decline the future. also expect that fulfillment costs will decline percentage sales the future additional capacity our existing distribution center network more fully utilized. However, due risks related market share, seasonality, distribution centers, inventory management and other factors, advertising and marketing expenditures and fulfillment costs may not decline percentage sales. Organizations responsible for promulgating accounting standards are currently reviewing the financial statement classification , and accounting for, fulfillment and order processing costs and other items number -commerce companies, including Amazon com. The review these accounting organizations may lead new accounting standards that could require that some all our fulfillment and order processing costs classified costs sales. These new standards could also require capitalize certain our fulfillment and order processing costs inventory. currently expense these costs incurred. will adjust our accounting and classification fulfillment and order processing costs required accounting organizations the SEC. Technology and Content % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Technology and content......... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales........ % % % Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs acquired content, including freelance reviews. The increases technology and content expenses and were primarily attributable increased staffing and associated costs related continual enhancements the features, content and functionality our Web sites and transaction-processing systems, well increased investment systems and telecommunications infrastructure. These increases also were the result the costs developing, introducing and operating new product lines, operating expenses associated with acquired entities and, , the costs developing, introducing and operating new Web sites targeting Germany and the . Technology and content expenses increased percentage net sales due the significant number new product lines and services launched during the year. Technology and content expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. Technology and content costs are generally expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software that are capitalized and depreciated over estimated useful lives. believe that continued investment technology and content critical attaining our strategic objectives. addition ongoing investments our Web stores and infrastructure, intend increase investments products, services and international expansion. result, expect technology and content expenses continue increase absolute dollars. General and Administrative % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) General and administrative....... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales.......... % % % General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. The and increases general and administrative expenses were primarily result increased salaries and related expenses associated with the hiring additional personnel and legal and other professional fees related our growth. both and , additional expenses were incurred associated with acquired entities and the related international expansion and expanded activities. expect general and administrative expenses increase absolute dollars incur additional costs support the growth our business. Stock-based Compensation % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Stock-based compensation.......... $ , , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales........... % % % Stock-based compensation comprised the portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure key employees the acquired businesses, which must classified compensation expense rather than component purchase price under generally accepted accounting principles. Stock-based compensation also includes stock-based charges such option-related deferred compensation recorded our initial public offering, well certain other compensation and severance arrangements. The increase stock-based compensation resulted primarily from acquisitions closed . Stock-based compensation for and relates primarily option-related deferred compensation recorded the time our initial public offering. Amortization Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangibles % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ---- ( THOUSANDS) Amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles............ $ , % $ , $ Increases amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles primarily resulted from the amortization goodwill and other intangibles recorded the time our acquisitions Exchange com, Alexa Internet, Accept com, LiveBid com, the catalog and online commerce assets Acme Electric Motor . (Tool Crib the North), Back Basics Toys and other acquisitions. , amortization charges resulted from the amortization goodwill and other intangibles recorded the acquisitions Junglee and three smaller Internet companies. expect that amortization charges from the acquisitions consummated will increase based full year amortization for all the acquisitions. likely that will continue expand our business through acquisitions, which would cause amortization goodwill and other intangibles increase. Loss from Operations % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Loss from operations.......... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales....... % % % Our loss from operations increased from , and from , due continued expansion our business. Our operating expenses have historically increased more quickly than our revenues have expanded our operations. expect that our overall loss from operations incurred will decrease significantly percentage net sales, compared that percentage . Interest Income and Expense % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Interest income.................. $ , % $ , % $ , Interest expense................. , % , , % Interest income cash and marketable securities increased due higher investment balances resulting from the proceeds from the issuance $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the "Convertible Subordinated Notes") February and increased due the issuance approximately $ million gross proceeds % Senior Discount Notes due May , (the "Senior Discount Notes") May . Interest expense increased and due the interest expense associated with this debt, well amortization deferred charges associated with issuance the notes. February , , completed offering E690, , ($ , , February , ) % Convertible Subordinated Notes due , also known Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities, "PEACS." Therefore, expect interest expense increase the future for interest associated with these notes. Equity Losses Equity-Method Investees % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ---- ( THOUSANDS) Equity losses equity-method investees.......................... $ , , % $ , $ Equity losses equity-method investees represents our share losses companies which have investments that give the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. This generally defined ownership interest the voting stock the investee between % and %. made several equity-method investments and increased our investment the equity-method investment made . expect make additional equity-method investments the future. Many the companies which have invested date are the early stage their operations and are incurring net losses. Therefore, expect continue record losses our equity-method investments. July , one our equity-method investees, drugstore com, inc., completed the initial public offering its common stock. drugstore com operates online retail store and information site for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy products. connection with this transaction, recorded contribution additional paid- capital $ million, representing the difference between the carrying value our investment and the underlying net book value drugstore com after the IPO. Two our other equity-method investees, Pets com and Homegrocer com, completed their IPOs February and March , respectively. therefore will record contribution additional paid- capital connection with these transactions, and reasonably possible that other equity-method investees may complete IPOs the future. Income Taxes did not provide any current deferred federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because have experienced operating losses since inception. Utilization our net operating loss carryforwards, which begin expire , may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. have provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. PRO FORMA INFORMATION Pro forma information regarding our results, which excludes amortization goodwill and other intangibles, stock-based compensation, equity losses equity-method investees and merger, acquisition and investment-related costs, follows: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNT) Pro forma loss from operations............................. $( , ) Pro forma net loss......................................... $( , ) Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share................. $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic and diluted loss per share........................................... , Using the methodology described above derive pro forma loss from operations, our books business was profitable the fourth quarter and expect this business profitable . The pro forma results are presented for informational purposes only and are not prepared accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES December , , our cash balance was $ million, compared $ million December , . Our marketable securities balance, which includes highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Net cash used operating activities amounted $ million for . This was primarily attributable the net loss for the year $ million, partially offset non-cash charges related depreciation, stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles, and equity losses equity-method investees totaling $ million, well $ million cash provided changes operating assets and liabilities. Cash provided changes operating assets and liabilities primarily function increase accounts payable and accrued liabilities, offset increase inventories and prepaid expenses and other current assets. For , net cash provided operating activities was $ million and was primarily attributable non-cash expenses and increases accounts payable and accrued expenses, largely offset the net loss and increases inventories and prepaid expenses and other. Net cash used investing activities was $ million and consisted net purchases marketable securities $ million, purchases fixed assets $ million and cash paid for acquisitions and investments businesses $ million. Net cash used investing activities during was $ million and consisted net purchases marketable securities $ million, purchases fixed assets $ million and cash paid for acquisitions and investments businesses $ million. Net cash provided financing activities $ billion for was primarily due $ billion proceeds from the sale our Convertible Subordinated Notes February , partially offset repayment long-term debt, including $ million cash paid repurchase portion our outstanding Senior Discount Notes. Net cash provided financing activities $ million for primarily resulted from net proceeds approximately $ million from the Senior Discount Notes offering offset the repayment $ million long-term debt. December , , our principal sources liquidity consisted $ million cash and marketable securities. that date, our principal commitments consisted obligations outstanding under our Convertible Subordinated Notes due and Senior Discount Notes, well obligations connection with operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements. During , undertook substantial expansion our distribution center network the , adding six distribution centers the . also opened new distribution centers the and Germany. anticipate that our current distribution center capacity the will adequate for our needs for least the next months, but may require additional capacity international markets. May , completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds the Senior Discount Notes, February , completed the offering approximately $ billion Convertible Subordinated Notes, and February , completed the offering E690 million % Convertible Subordinated Notes due , also knows PEACS. See Notes and Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated reference Item Part . believe that current cash and marketable securities balances, together with net proceeds from the PEACS, will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. current cash, marketable securities and cash that may generated from operations are insufficient satisfy our liquidity requirements, may seek sell additional equity debt securities obtain credit facilities from lenders. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities could result additional dilution the Company\' stockholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition investment complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the repurchase and retirement debt, which might impact our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that financing will available amounts terms acceptable , all. YEAR IMPLICATIONS Many currently installed computer systems, software programs and embedded data chips are programmed using two-digit date field and are therefore unable distinguish dates beyond the 20th century. failure identify and correct any mission-critical internal third-party year processing problem could have material adverse operational financial consequence . established Year Project Team that, together with external consultants, developed process for addressing the year issue, including performing inventory, assessment, remediation procedures ( the extent necessary) and testing procedures all mission-critical information systems and equipment and machinery that contain embedded technology, well obtaining assurances from all mission-critical third parties their own year preparedness. the date filing this Annual Report Form - , all our mission-critical systems have been successfully tested for year compliance, and have not experienced any significant year problems with our own mission-critical systems any mission-critical third parties. Although have not experienced any significant year problems date, plan continue monitor the situation closely. cannot sure that will completely successful our efforts address the year issue that problems arising from the year issue will not cause material adverse effect our operating results financial condition. believe, however, that our most reasonably likely worst-case scenario would relate problems with the systems third parties rather than with our internal systems. are limited our efforts address the year issue relates third parties and rely solely the assurances these third parties their year preparedness. part our broader contingency planning, also developed business continuity plans address each critical process and activity that believe would cause significant disruption operations not functional for hours. Despite these efforts, cannot guarantee that the contingency plan will adequately address all circumstances that may disrupt operations that such planning will prevent circumstances that may cause material adverse effect our operating results financial condition. ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK not have any derivative financial instruments our marketable securities portfolio December , . However, are exposed interest rate risk debt instruments hold. employ established policies and procedures manage our exposure changes the market risk our marketable securities, which are classified available-for-sale December , and . Our Senior Discount Notes, Convertible Subordinated Notes, PEACS and other long-term debt have fixed interest rates and the fair value these instruments affected changes market interest rates. believe that the market risk arising from holdings our financial instruments not material. Our exposure currency exchange risk through December , has not been material. However, with the completion the offering PEACS notes February , , will exposed currency exchange risk because the debt denominated euros while our functional currency the dollar. plan employ established policies and procedures mitigate the risk exchange rate fluctuations. Additionally, the conversion price for the PEACS denominated euros. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources." The table below provides information about our marketable securities, including principal cash flows for through and the related weighted average interest rates. Principal (notional) amounts expected maturity dollars December , : ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE DECEMBER , THEREAFTER TOTAL ------- -------- ------- ------ ------- ---------- -------- -------------- Commercial paper and short-term obligations..... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % % % % % % Corporate notes and bonds.... , , -- -- -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % -- -- -- -- % Asset-backed and agency securities................. , , , , , , , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % % % % % % Treasury notes and bonds..... , , , , -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % % % -- -- % ------- -------- ------- ------ ------- -------- -------- -------- Total Portfolio.......... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ======= ======== ======= ====== ======= ======== ======== ======== Principal (notional) amounts expected maturity dollars December , : ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE DECEMBER , THEREAFTER TOTAL -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ---------- -------- -------------- Commercial paper and short-term obligations...... $ , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % Corporate notes and bonds..... , , -- -- -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % % Asset-backed and agency securities.................. -- , , , , , , , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % % % % % Treasury notes and bonds...... , , , , -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % % % % -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- Total Portfolio, excluding equity securities....... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ======== ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= ======== ======== ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE ---- Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors........... Consolidated Balance Sheets................................. Consolidated Statements Operations....................... Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity............. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows....................... Notes Consolidated Financial Statements.................. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item ( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / ERNST & YOUNG LLP Seattle, Washington February , , except for Note which the date February , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) ASSETS DECEMBER , ---------------------- ---------- -------- Current assets: Cash...................................................... $ , $ , Marketable securities..................................... , , Inventories............................................... , , Prepaid expenses and other current assets................. , , ---------- -------- Total current assets.............................. , , , Fixed assets, net........................................... , , Goodwill, net............................................... , , Other purchased intangibles, net............................ , , Investments equity-method investees...................... , , Other investments........................................... , -- Deferred charges and other.................................. , , ---------- -------- Total assets...................................... $ , , $ , ========== ======== LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable.......................................... $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities............ , , Accrued advertising....................................... , , Deferred revenue.......................................... , -- Interest payable.......................................... , Current portion long-term debt and other............... , ---------- -------- Total current liabilities......................... , , Long-term debt and other.................................... , , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , Issued and outstanding shares -- none.................. -- -- Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , , Issued and outstanding shares -- , and , shares December , and , respectively.... , , Additional paid- capital................................ , , , Note receivable for common stock.......................... ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation.................................. ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)............. ( , ) , Accumulated deficit....................................... ( , ) ( , ) ---------- -------- Total stockholders\' equity........................ , , ---------- -------- Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity........ $ , , $ , ========== ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ----------------------------------- ---------- --------- -------- Net sales................................................ $ , , $ , $ , Cost sales............................................ , , , , ---------- --------- -------- Gross profit........................................ , , , Operating expenses: Marketing and sales.................................... , , , Technology and content................................. , , , General and administrative............................. , , , Stock-based compensation............................... , , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles......... , , -- Merger, acquisition and investment-related costs....... , , -- ---------- --------- -------- Total operating expenses....................... , , , ---------- --------- -------- Loss from operations..................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest income.......................................... , , , Interest expense......................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other income, net........................................ , -- -- ---------- --------- -------- Net interest income (expense) and other............. ( , ) ( , ) , ---------- --------- -------- Loss before equity losses equity-method investees.............................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees.............. ( , ) ( , ) -- ---------- --------- -------- Net loss................................................. $ ( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ========== ========= ======== Basic and diluted loss per share......................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========== ========= ======== Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share.................................................. , , , ========== ========= ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( THOUSANDS) ACCUMULATED PREFERRED STOCK COMMON STOCK ADDITIONAL NOTE RECEIVABLE OTHER --------------- ---------------- PAID- FOR DEFERRED COMPREHENSIVE SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT CAPITAL COMMON STOCK COMPENSATION INCOME (LOSS) ------ ------ ------- ------ ---------- --------------- ------------ ------------- Balance January , .... $ , $ , $ , $ -- $ ( ) $ -- Net loss..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Sale preferred stock...... -- -- -- -- -- -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs...... -- -- , , -- -- -- Conversion preferred stock into common stock.......... ( ) ( ) , ( ) -- -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued technology and content..... -- -- , , -- -- -- Issuance capital stock.... -- -- , , -- -- -- Exercise common stock options.................... -- -- , -- -- -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- -- -- -- ( ) -- , -- ---- --- ------- ------ ---------- ------- -------- ------- Balance December , ......................... -- -- , , , -- ( , ) -- Net loss..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation losses..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ( ) Change unrealized gain marketable securities...... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- , Comprehensive loss............ Issuance capital stock.... -- -- , , -- -- -- Exercise common stock options.................... -- -- , , -- -- -- Note receivable for common stock...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( , ) -- -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- -- -- -- -- -- , -- ---- --- ------- ------ ---------- ------- -------- ------- Balance December , ......................... -- -- , , , ( , ) ( , ) , Net loss..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation gains...................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Change unrealized gain (loss) marketable securities, net reclassification adjustment................. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ( , ) Comprehensive loss............ Issuance capital stock.... -- -- , , -- -- -- Exercise common stock options.................... -- -- , , -- -- -- Initial public offering equity-method investee..... -- -- -- -- , -- -- -- Note receivable for common stock...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) -- -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- -- -- -- -- -- , -- ---- --- ------- ------ ---------- ------- -------- ------- Balance December , ......................... -- $-- , $ , $ , , $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ==== === ======= ====== ========== ======= ======== ======= TOTAL ACCUMULATED STOCKHOLDERS\' DEFICIT EQUITY ----------- ------------- Balance January , .... $ ( , ) $ , Net loss..................... ( , ) ( , ) Sale preferred stock...... -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs...... -- , Conversion preferred stock into common stock.......... -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued technology and content..... -- , Issuance capital stock.... -- , Exercise common stock options.................... -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- , --------- --------- Balance December , ......................... ( , ) , --------- Net loss..................... ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation losses..................... -- ( ) Change unrealized gain marketable securities...... -- , --------- Comprehensive loss............ ( , ) --------- Issuance capital stock.... -- , Exercise common stock options.................... -- , Note receivable for common stock...................... -- ( , ) Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- , --------- --------- Balance December , ......................... ( , ) , --------- Net loss..................... ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains...................... -- Change unrealized gain (loss) marketable securities, net reclassification adjustment................. -- ( , ) --------- Comprehensive loss............ ( , ) --------- Issuance capital stock.... -- , Exercise common stock options.................... -- , Initial public offering equity-method investee..... -- , Note receivable for common stock...................... -- ( ) Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- , --------- --------- Balance December , ......................... $( , ) $ , ========= ========= See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( THOUSANDS) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ------------------------------------- ----------- --------- --------- OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net loss................................................... $ ( , ) $( , ) $ ( , ) Adjustments reconcile net loss net cash provided (used) operating activities: Depreciation and amortization fixed assets............ , , , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation........ , , , Equity losses equity-method investees.............. , , -- Amortization goodwill and other intangibles........... , , -- Non-cash merger, acquisition, and investment related costs................................................. , , -- Non-cash revenue for advertising and promotional services.............................................. ( , ) -- -- Loss sale marketable securities.................... , -- Non-cash interest expense................................ , , ----------- --------- --------- Net cash used operating activities before changes operating assets and liabilities...................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Changes operating assets and liabilities, net effects from acquisitions: Inventories........................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Prepaid expenses and other current assets............. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts payable...................................... , , , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities........ , , , Accrued advertising................................... , , , Deferred revenue...................................... -- -- Interest payable...................................... , ( ) -- ----------- --------- --------- Net cash provided changes operating assets and liabilities, net effects from acquisitions................................... , , , ----------- --------- --------- Net cash provided (used) operating activities..................................... ( , ) , INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Sales and maturities marketable securities.............. , , , , Purchases marketable securities......................... ( , , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets.................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisitions and investments businesses, net cash acquired................................................. ( , ) ( , ) -- ----------- --------- --------- Net cash used investing activities............ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from issuance capital stock and exercise stock options............................................ , , , Proceeds from long-term debt............................... , , , , Repayment long-term debt................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Financing costs............................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ----------- --------- --------- Net cash provided financing activities........ , , , , Effect exchange rate changes............................ ( ) -- ----------- --------- --------- Net increase cash....................................... , , , Cash beginning period................................ , , ----------- --------- --------- Cash end period...................................... $ , $ , $ , =========== ========= ========= SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Fixed assets acquired under capital leases................. $ , $ -- $ , Fixed assets acquired under financing agreements........... , -- , Stock issued connection with business acquisitions...... , , -- Equity securities other companies received for non-cash revenue for advertising and promotional services......... , -- -- Cash paid for interest, net amounts capitalized......... , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE -- ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Inc. (Amazon com the Company) was incorporated July and opened its virtual doors the Web July . Amazon com Internet retailer offering more than million unique items categories including books, music, DVD video, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement products. Amazon com offers free electronic greeting card service and also provides community online shoppers with easy and safe way purchase and sell large selection products through Amazon com Auctions and zShops. Business Combinations and Investments For business combinations that have been accounted for under the purchase method accounting, the Company includes the results operations the acquired business from the date acquisition. Net assets the companies acquired are recorded their fair value the date acquisition. The excess the purchase price over the fair value tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired included goodwill the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. One business combination was accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. this case, the assets, liabilities and stockholders\' equity the acquired entity was combined with the Company\' respective accounts recorded values. The consolidated financial statements reflect the restatement all periods presented include the accounts the acquired entity accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. The historical results the pooled entity reflect its actual operating cost structures and, result, not necessarily reflect the cost structure the newly combined entity. The historical results not purport indicative future results. Investments affiliated entities which the Company has the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, investee, generally ownership interest the voting stock between % and %, are accounted for under the equity method accounting. Accordingly, under the equity method accounting, the Company\' share the investee\' earnings loss included the consolidated statements operations. The Company records its investments equity-method investees the consolidated balance sheets "Investments equity-method investees" and its share the investees\' earnings losses "Equity losses equity-method investees." The portion the Company\' investment equity-method investee that exceeds its claim the net assets the investee, any, assigned goodwill and amortized over period three years. The goodwill amount, which was $ million December , , included "Investments equity-method investees" the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, and the amortization the goodwill included "Equity losses equity-method investees" the accompanying consolidated statements operations. All other investments, which consist investments for which the Company does not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method accounting. Dividends and other distributions earnings from other investees, any, are included income when declared. The Company periodically evaluates the carrying value its investments accounted for under the cost method accounting and December , and , such investments were recorded the lower cost estimated net realizable value. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities and disclosure contingent assets and liabilities the date the financial statements and the reported amounts revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Marketable Securities The Company\' marketable securities, which consist primarily high-quality short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds, are classified available-for-sale and are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reported, net taxes, component stockholders\' equity within accumulated other comprehensive income. Unrealized losses are charged against income when decline fair value determined other than temporary. The specific identification method used determine the cost securities sold. The Company classifies all investments cash marketable securities, including highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, and reflects the related cash flows investing cash flows. result the classification highly liquid investments within marketable securities, significant portion the Company\' gross marketable securities purchases and maturities disclosed investing cash flows related highly liquid investments. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are valued the lower cost (specific identification) market. Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two ten years). Fixed assets purchased under capital leases are amortized straight-line basis over the lesser the estimated useful life the asset the lease term. Included fixed assets the cost internal-use software, including software used connection with the Company\' Web sites. The Company expenses all costs related the development internal-use software other than those incurred during the application development stage. Costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software (generally two years). Goodwill, Net Goodwill, net, represents the excess the purchase price over the fair value assets acquired business acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method. Goodwill presented net related accumulated amortization and being amortized over lives ranging from two four years. Other Purchased Intangibles, Net Other purchased intangibles, net, include identifiable intangible assets purchased the Company, primarily connection with business acquisitions. Other purchased intangibles are presented net related accumulated amortization and are being amortized over lives ranging from two four years. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Long-Lived Assets The carrying values intangible assets and other long-lived assets, including equity-method investments, are reviewed regular basis for the existence facts circumstances, both internally and externally, that may suggest impairment. date, such impairment has been indicated. Fair Value Financial Instruments The carrying amounts for the Company\' cash, accounts payable and other liabilities approximate fair value. The fair market value for long-term debt and marketable securities based quoted market prices where available. Deferred Charges Deferred charges consist fees associated with the issuance the Company\' debt. The fees are being amortized and included interest expense over the life the related debt. Deferred Revenue Deferred revenue consists advertising fees earned the future under agreements existing the balance sheet date. Income Taxes The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected effect when the differences are expected recovered. The Company provides valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which does not consider realization such assets more likely than not. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue from product sales, net any promotional gift certificates, when the products are shipped customers, which also when title passes customers. Outbound shipping charges are included net sales and amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Revenue from gift certificates recognized upon product shipment following redemption. The Company provides allowance for sales returns based historical experience. Revenues from services are recorded the time the related service performed. During , the Company recorded approximately $ million revenue associated with noncash transactions whereby the Company received equity securities other companies exchange for advertising and promotional services provided for fixed period time. The Company recorded the fair value the consideration the date received, $ million, and recognizing revenue ratably over the term the agreements the advertising and promotional services are provided. Cost Sales Cost sales consists the actual cost products purchased for resale and related -bound shipping charges, out-bound shipping charges, and the actual cost tangible supplies used package products for shipment customers. Outbound shipping charges and the cost tangible supplies used package products for shipment customers totaled $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Fulfillment Costs Included marketing and sales expense are fulfillment costs, which consist the cost operating and staffing distribution and customer service centers. Such costs include those attributable receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customers\' orders for shipment; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Advertising Costs The cost advertising expensed incurred. For the years ended December , , and , the Company incurred advertising expense $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants, systems and telecommunications infrastructure and costs acquired content. Technology and content costs are generally expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software, including those relating the Company\' Web sites, that are capitalized and depreciated over estimated useful lives. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees (APB . ), and related interpretations, accounting for its employee stock options rather than the alternative fair value accounting allowed Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. APB . provides that the compensation expense relative the Company\' employee stock options measured based the intrinsic value the stock option. SFAS . requires companies that continue follow APB . provide pro forma disclosure the impact applying the fair value method SFAS . . Foreign Currency Translation The functional currency the Company\' foreign subsidiaries the local currency. Assets and liabilities foreign subsidiaries are translated into dollars year-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are included accumulated other comprehensive income, separate component stockholders\' equity. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved, which have been insignificant, are included the consolidated statements operations. date, the Company has entered into foreign currency exchange contracts. Concentrations Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company concentrations credit risk consist principally its holdings cash and marketable securities. The Company\' credit risk managed investing its cash and marketable securities high-quality money market instruments and securities the government and its agencies, foreign governments and high-quality corporate issuers. December , and , the Company had significant concentrations credit risk. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Earnings (Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share excludes any dilutive effects options, warrants and convertible securities. Basic earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding, net shares subject repurchase, during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common and common stock equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation their effect antidilutive. result the Company\' initial public offering May , all preferred stock automatically converted into common stock. Accordingly, the net loss per share pro forma loss per share based the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding and preferred stock " " converted basis outstanding during each period. The Company believes that this more meaningful presentation earnings per share for periods prior its initial public offering. New Accounting Pronouncements December , the Securities and Exchange Commission staff released Staff Accounting Bulletin . , Revenue Recognition Financial Statements (SAB . ), which provides guidance the recognition, presentation and disclosure revenue financial statements. SAB . did not impact the Company\' revenue recognition policies. June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. amended SFAS . , SFAS . effective for all fiscal quarters all fiscal years beginning after June , . SFAS . requires that all derivative instruments recorded the balance sheet their fair value. Changes the fair value derivatives are recorded each period current earnings other comprehensive income, depending whether derivative designed part hedge transaction and, , the type hedge transaction. The Company has not yet determined the impact the adoption SFAS . its consolidated financial statements business practices. Reclassifications Certain prior year balances have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. NOTE -- BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The Company completed the following acquisitions during : -Niche Incorporated (Exchange com), Accept com Financial Services Corporation (Accept com), Alexa Internet (Alexa), LiveBid com, Inc. (LiveBid) the catalog and online commerce assets Acme Electric Motor . (Tool Crib) and Back Basics Toys, Inc. (Back Basics). Each acquisition was recorded using the purchase method accounting under APB Opinion . . Results operations for each acquired company have been included the financial results the Company from the closing date each transaction forward. accordance with APB Opinion . , all identifiable assets were assigned portion the cost the acquired companies (purchase price) the basis their respective fair values. Intangible assets were identified and valued considering the Company\' intended use acquired assets and analysis data concerning products, technologies, markets, historical financial performance, and underlying assumptions future performance. The economic and competitive environment which the Company and the acquired companies operate was also considered the valuation analysis. Approximately $ million the purchase price the Accept com and Alexa transactions attributable -process research and development efforts has been expensed because, the time acquisition, technological feasibility had not been established and alternative future uses existed. Purchased -process AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) research and development was identified and valued independent valuation through discussions with the acquired companies\' management and the analysis data concerning developmental products, their respective stage development, the time and resources needed complete them, their expected income generating ability, target markets and associated risks. May , , the Company completed its acquisition Exchange com, developer Internet marketplaces and related online communities that bring together buyers and sellers rare and hard- -find items. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding Exchange com stock options and issued , , shares Amazon com common stock acquire all the outstanding common shares Exchange com. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. Pursuant the terms the agreement, the Company may required issue additional shares with value $ million one year after the acquisition date dependent certain performance goals, which would increase the purchase price this amount. May , , the Company completed its acquisition LiveBid, technology provider for live, event-based auctions the Internet. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding LiveBid stock options and issued , shares acquire all the outstanding common shares LiveBid. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. June , , the Company completed its acquisition Accept com, -commerce company developing technology simplify person- -person and business- -consumer transactions the Internet. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding Accept com stock options and issued , , shares Amazon com common stock acquire all the outstanding common shares Accept com. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. June , , the Company completed its acquisition Alexa, developer Web navigation service that works with Internet browsers provide useful information about the sites being viewed and suggests related sites. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding Alexa stock options and issued , , shares Amazon com common stock acquire all the outstanding common shares Alexa. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. October , and November , , respectively, the Company completed its acquisition the catalog and online commerce assets Tool Crib, retailer home improvement products, and its acquisition Back Basics, catalog retailer toys. connection with these acquisitions, the Company issued total , , shares Amazon com common stock. the approximately $ million aggregate purchase price, approximately $ million was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately four years. The Company made additional immaterial acquisitions during totaling $ million. The Company issued , shares common stock effect these acquisitions. connection with certain acquisitions, the Company has conditioned portion the overall consideration the continued tenure key employees. Under generally accepted accounting principles, portion this amount accounted for compensation rather than component purchase price. Consequently, AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) maximum $ million additional consideration relating the Company\' acquisitions for may recorded compensation expense and classified between stock-based compensation and merger, acquisition and investment-related costs the results operations. Amounts will "earned" based tenure certain employees and will recognized expense over period - months. April , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock three international Internet companies. The aggregate purchase price the three acquisitions, plus related charges, was approximately $ million. The consideration for the acquisitions was comprised common stock and cash. The Company issued aggregate approximately million shares common stock effect the transactions. The goodwill and other purchased intangibles are being amortized straight-line basis over two years. August , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock Junglee Corp. (Junglee). Junglee was leading provider advanced Web-based virtual database technology help shoppers find and discover products the Internet. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options and warrants connection with the acquisition Junglee. The Junglee acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method accounting, with substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. The pro forma consolidated financial information for years ended December , and , determined all acquisitions had occurred January each year, would have resulted net sales $ billion and $ million, net loss $ million and $ million, and basic and diluted loss per share $ and $ , respectively. This unaudited pro forma information presented for illustrative purposes only and not necessarily indicative the results operations future periods results that would have been achieved had Amazon com and the acquired companies been combined during the specified periods. August , the Company exchanged common stock and options for all the outstanding capital stock Sage Enterprises, Inc. (PlanetAll). The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options connection with the merger. The PlanetAll merger was accounted for pooling interests and, result, the Company\' consolidated financial statements have been restated for all periods presented. PlanetAll issued approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million and approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million January and April , respectively. Net sales for PlanetAll were not significant and net loss was $ million and $ million for the nine months ended September , and the year ended December , , respectively, which represent separate results the combined entity through the periods preceding the merger. There were significant intercompany transactions between the two companies and significant conforming accounting adjustments. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize, major security type, the Company\' marketable securities: DECEMBER , --------------------------------------------------- GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED ESTIMATED COST GAINS LOSSES FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Commercial paper and short-term obligations........................... $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Corporate notes and bonds............... , -- ( , ) , Asset-backed and agency securities...... , ( , ) , Treasury notes and bonds................ , ( , ) , -------- ---- -------- -------- $ , $ $( , ) $ , ======== ==== ======== ======== DECEMBER , --------------------------------------------------- GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED ESTIMATED COST GAINS LOSSES FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Commercial paper and short-term obligations........................... $ , $ $ -- $ , Corporate notes and bonds............... , ( ) , Asset-backed and agency securities...... , ( ) , Treasury notes and bonds................ , ( ) , Equity securities....................... , , -- , -------- ------ ----- -------- $ , $ , $( ) $ , ======== ====== ===== ======== December , , the Company also had investments noncurrent available-for-sale equity securities included "Other investments" (Note ). The following table summarizes contractual maturities the Company\' marketable securities December , : AMORTIZED ESTIMATED COST FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Due within one year.................................... $ , $ , Due after one year through five years.................. , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities........................................... , , -------- -------- $ , $ , ======== ======== The gross realized gains and losses sales available-for-sale securities were $ million and $ million, respectively, for the year ended December , . Gross realized gains and losses sales available-for-sale securities were not significant for the years ended December , . Activity unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities was follows: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------- ---------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during period............................................... $( , ) $ , $-- Less: reclassification adjustment for losses included net loss.......................................... , -- -- -------- ------ --- Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities........................................... $ ( , ) $ , $-- ======== ====== === AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consist the following: DECEMBER , -------------------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Computers, equipment and software...................... $ , $ , Leasehold improvements................................. , , Leased assets.......................................... , Construction progress............................... , , -------- -------- , , Less accumulated depreciation and amortization......... ( , ) ( , ) -------- -------- Fixed assets, net................................. $ , $ , ======== ======== The Company capitalized approximately $ million interest during the year ended December , . NOTE -- GOODWILL AND OTHER PURCHASED INTANGIBLES Goodwill and other purchased intangibles are stated net related accumulated amortization, follows: DECEMBER , --------------------- --------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Goodwill.............................................. $ , $ , Less accumulated amortization......................... ( , ) ( , ) --------- -------- Goodwill, net.................................... , , ========= ======== Other purchased intangibles........................... , , Less accumulated amortization......................... ( , ) ( , ) --------- -------- Other purchased intangibles, net................. $ , $ , ========= ======== NOTE -- INVESTMENTS The Company has several equity-method investments included "Investments equity-method investees" the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. December , , the Company\' only equity-method investment was % ownership interest drugstore com, inc. (drugstore com). cases does the Company have the ability control these investees. December , , the Company\' equity-method investees and the Company\' approximate ownership interest each investee, based outstanding shares, were follows: PERCENTAGE COMPANY OWNERSHIP ------- ---------- Della com................................................. % drugstore com............................................. % Gear com.................................................. % HomeGrocer com............................................ % Kozmo com................................................. % Naxon Corporation......................................... % Pets com.................................................. % AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Summarized balance sheet information the Company\' equity-method investees follows: DECEMBER , ------------------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Current assets.......................................... $ , $ , Noncurrent assets....................................... , , Current liabilities..................................... , , Noncurrent liabilities.................................. , Summarized statement operations information the Company\' equity-method investees, calculated for each investee for the period during which the Company had investments such investees, follows: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------- ---------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Net sales................................... $ , $ -- $ -- Gross profit (loss)......................... ( , ) -- -- Net loss.................................... ( , ) ( , ) -- July , drugstore com completed the initial public offering (IPO) its common stock. drugstore com operates online retail store and information site for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy products. Prior the IPO, the Company owned , , shares drugstore com common stock, which represented % the outstanding shares. drugstore com sold , , shares common stock its IPO price $ per share, including , shares purchased the Company. This reduced the Company\' ownership percentage % after the IPO. connection with this transaction, the Company recorded contribution additional paid- capital $ million, representing the difference between the carrying value the Company\' investment and the proportionate underlying net book value drugstore com after the IPO. December , , drugstore com was the only publicly held equity-method investee the Company. The market value the Company\' drugstore com common stock was $ million December , . December , , "Other investments" includes $ million investments accounted for under the cost method and $ million cost method investments securities with ready markets recorded fair value pursuant SFAS . . The cost such noncurrent available-for-sale equity securities December , was $ million. Gross unrealized gains were $ million and gross unrealized losses were $ million December , . NOTE -- LONG-TERM DEBT Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , the Company completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the Convertible Subordinated Notes). The Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into the Company\' common stock the holders\' option conversion price $ per share, subject adjustment certain events. Interest the Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year, and commenced August , . The Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness defined the indenture governing the Convertible Subordinated Notes (the Convertible Subordinated Notes Indenture). Subject certain conditions, the Convertible Subordinated Notes may redeemed the option the Company prior February , , whole part, the redemption price $ , per note, plus accrued and unpaid interest, the closing price for the Company\' common stock has exceeded % the conversion price for least trading days within period consecutive AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) trading days ending the trading day prior the date mailing the notice redemption. Upon any redemption made prior February , , the Company will also make additional cash payment with respect the Convertible Subordinated Notes called for redemption amount equal $ per $ , note redeemed, less the amount any interest actually paid such Convertible Subordinated Notes prior the call for redemption. any time and after February , , the Company may redeem the notes, whole part, the redemption prices set forth the Convertible Subordinated Notes Indenture. Upon the occurrence "fundamental change" ( defined the Convertible Subordinated Notes Indenture) prior the maturity the Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof shall have the right require Amazon com redeem all any part such holder\' Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. The fair value the Convertible Subordinated Notes December , was $ , , , . Senior Discount Notes May , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds % Senior Discount Notes due May , (the Senior Discount Notes). Pursuant registration statement Form - September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (the Exchange Notes), which are registered under the Securities Act , amended, for all outstanding Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout these notes consolidated financial statements interchangeably with the Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the original Senior Discount Notes (the Indenture). The Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. During , the Company repurchased $ million (principal amount) the Senior Discount Notes, representing accreted value $ million. The Company recorded immaterial loss extinguishment this debt. December , , the remaining principal amount outstanding was $ million. The Senior Discount Notes are senior unsecured indebtedness the Company ranking pari passu with the Company\' existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness and senior right payment all subordinated indebtedness the Company. The Senior Discount Notes are effectively subordinated all secured indebtedness and all existing and future liabilities the Company\' subsidiaries. The Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries ( defined the Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all financial covenants December , and . The fair value the outstanding Senior Discount Notes December , was $ million. December , , the carrying amount the Senior Discount Notes approximated fair value. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Leases and Marketing Agreements The Company currently leases office and distribution center facilities and fixed assets under noncancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for , and was $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. The Company has also entered into certain marketing agreements, which include fixed fees through . The costs associated with these agreements are recognized systematic basis over the term the related agreements services are received. Future minimum commitments are follows: OPERATING LEASES AND CAPITAL MARKETING LEASES AGREEMENTS ------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) YEAR ENDING DECEMBER , ............................................ $ , $ , ............................................ , , ............................................ , , ............................................ , ............................................ -- Thereafter........................................... -- -- ------- -------- Total minimum lease payments......................... $ , $ , ======== Less imputed interest................................ , ------- Present value net minimum lease payments.......... , Less current portion............................ , ------- Long-term capital lease obligation................... $ , ======= Legal Proceedings Subsequent December , , certain federal class action lawsuits were filed against the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Alexa. The lawsuits allege that Alexa tracking and storage Internet Web usage paths violates federal and state statutes prohibiting computer fraud, unfair competition, and unauthorized interception private electronic communications, well common law proscriptions against trespass and invasion privacy. The complaints seek actual, statutory, and punitive damages, well restitution, behalf all users Alexa Web navigation service, well injunctive relief prohibiting Alexa from tracking and storing such information disclosing third parties. Although the Company disputes the allegations wrongdoing these complaints, there can assurance that the Company will prevail these lawsuits. addition, the Federal Trade Commission has requested information and documents regarding Alexa practices and has opened formal investigative file connection with its inquiry. The Company cooperating voluntarily with the Federal Trade Commission\' investigation. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect the Company\' business, future results operations cash flows particular period. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition operating results. Letters Credit The Company contingently liable under unused letters credit the amount $ million December , . NOTE -- STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Preferred Stock June , the Company issued , shares Series convertible preferred stock price $ per share. January and February , the Company sold additional , shares Series preferred stock $ per share. The preferred stock was convertible into common stock the option the holder, any time, effective rate shares common stock for one share preferred stock. the closing the Company\' initial public offering, all the preferred stock outstanding was converted into aggregate , , shares common stock. Common Stock April , , the Company effected -for- common stock split. May , , the Company completed initial public offering million shares its common stock. Net proceeds the Company aggregated $ million. June , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend stockholders record May , . January , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend the stockholders record December , . September , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend stockholders record August , . Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restated reflect these stock splits. Stock Option Plans The Company\' stock option plans consist the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, the Stock Option Plan and the Stock Option Plan. Shares reserved under the Plans consist million shares the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, million shares the Stock Option Plan and million shares the Stock Option Plan. Any shares common stock available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan that are not issued under that plan may added the aggregate number shares available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan. connection with certain acquisitions and , the Company assumed outstanding options purchase common stock originally issued under the acquired companies\' stock option plans. The Company\' stock options plans well the assumed stock option plans are hereby collectively referred the "Plans." Generally, the Company\' Board Directors grants options exercise price not less than the fair market value the Company\' common stock the date grant. Each outstanding option granted prior December , has term five years from the date vesting. Generally, outstanding options granted subsequent December , have term years from the date grant; however, certain nonqualified stock options were granted with terms and years. Subject Internal Revenue Service limitations, options granted under the Plans prior April and granted under certain assumed plans generally become exercisable immediately. Options granted under the Plans since April generally vest and become exercisable accordance with the following vesting schedule: % after year one, % after year two and % the end each quarter for years three through five. Shares issued upon exercise options that are unvested are restricted and subject repurchase the Company the exercise price upon AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) termination employment services and such restrictions lapse over the original vesting schedule. December , , approximately million shares restricted common stock were subject repurchase. Stock Option Activity The following table summarizes the Company\' stock option activity: NUMBER WEIGHTED AVERAGE SHARES EXERCISE PRICE -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) Balance January , ........................... , $ Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------- Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------- Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------- Balance December , ......................... , $ ======= December , , million shares common stock were available for future grant under the Plans. The following table summarizes information about options outstanding and exercisable December , : SHARES UNDERLYING OPTIONS OUTSTANDING SHARES UNDERLYING --------------------------------------------- OPTIONS EXERCISABLE WEIGHTED ------------------------------- SHARES AVERAGE SHARES UNDERLYING REMAINING WEIGHTED UNDERLYING WEIGHTED RANGE OPTIONS CONTRACTUAL AVERAGE OPTIONS AVERAGE EXERCISE PRICES OUTSTANDING LIFE EXERCISE PRICE EXERCISABLE EXERCISE PRICE --------------- -------------- ----------- -------------- -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) ( THOUSANDS) $ - $. , years $ , $ - , years , - , years , - , years - , years - , years - , years - , years - , years - years ------ ----- $ - $ , years $ , $ ====== ===== AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Deferred Compensation The Company recorded aggregate deferred compensation $ million, $ million, and $ million , and , respectively. , deferred compensation was recorded connection with acquisitions made the Company which restricted Company stock was issued employees acquired companies. Such stock considered compensation for services provided employees, and the related expense will recognized over the term the services provided, which generally four years. The amounts recorded and represent the difference between the grant price and the deemed fair value the Company\' common stock for shares subject options granted and . Shares underlying options granted below fair market value and the associated weighted average exercise price were , , and $ , and million and $ during the years ended December , and , respectively. The amortization deferred compensation charged operations over the vesting period the options, which typically five years. Total amortization expense recognized , and related deferred compensation was $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Pro Forma Disclosure The Company follows the intrinsic value method accounting for its stock options. Had compensation cost been recognized based the fair value the date grant for options granted , and , the pro forma amounts the Company\' net loss and net loss per share for the years ended December , , and would have been follows: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------------------------- ------------ ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported......................... $ ( , ) $( , ) $( , ) Net loss -- pro forma........................... ( , , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- reported...................................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- pro forma... ( ) ( ) ( ) The fair value for each option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option pricing model, assuming expected dividends and the following weighted average assumptions: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ Average risk-free interest rates................... % % % Average expected life ( years)................... Volatility( )...................................... % % % - --------------- ( ) Options granted prior the Company\' initial public offering and PlanetAll prior its merger with the Company were valued using the minimum value method and therefore volatility was not applicable. The weighted average fair value options granted during , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively, for options granted with exercise prices the current fair value the underlying stock. During and , some options were granted with exercise prices that were below the current fair value the underlying stock. The weighted average fair value options granted with exercise prices below the current fair value the underlying stock during and was $ and $ , respectively. Compensation expense that recognized providing pro forma disclosures might not representative the effects pro forma earnings for future years because SFAS . does not apply stock option grants made prior . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance December , , common stock reserved for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock options............................................... , Shares issuable upon conversion Convertible Subordinated Notes..................................................... , Shares issuable associated with acquisitions................ ------- Total.................................................. , ======= NOTE -- EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE The following represents the calculations for net loss per share: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ------------------------------------- ---------- ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported.................................. $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ========= ========= ======== Weighted average shares outstanding...................... , , , Pro forma adjustment for preferred stock................. -- -- , Weighted average common shares issued subject repurchase agreements.................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) --------- --------- -------- Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share.................................................. , , , ========= ========= ======== Basic and diluted loss per share......................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ========= ======== All the Company\' stock options (see Note ) are excluded from diluted loss per share since their effect antidilutive. NOTE -- STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION Stock-based compensation comprised the portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure key employees, which must classified compensation expense rather than component purchase price under generally accepted accounting principles. Stock-based compensation also includes stock-based charges such option-related deferred compensation recorded the Company\' initial public offering, well certain other compensation and severance arrangements. The following table shows the amounts stock-based compensation that would have been recorded under the following income statement categories had stock-based compensation not been separately stated the Consolidated Statements Operations: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------- -------- ------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Marketing and sales......................... $ , $ , $ Technology and content...................... , General and administrative.................. , ------- ------ ------ $ , $ , $ , ======= ====== ====== NOTE -- INCOME TAXES The Company did not provide any current deferred federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because has experienced operating losses since inception. The AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Company has provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. December , , the Company had net operating loss approximately $ billion related federal, foreign and state jurisdictions. Utilization net operating loss, which begin expire various times starting , may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. the extent that net operating losses, when realized, relate stock option deductions approximately $ million, the resulting benefits will credited stockholders\' equity. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets are approximately follows: DECEMBER , --------------------- --------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Net operating loss.................................... $ , $ , Depreciation and amortization......................... ( ) , Accrued expenses and valuation allowances............. , -- Other................................................. , , --------- -------- Total deferred tax assets...................... , , Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets........... ( , ) ( , ) --------- -------- Net deferred tax assets............................... $ -- $ -- ========= ======== NOTE -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN The Company has ( ) savings plan covering substantially all its employees. Eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. The Company matches employees\' contributions the discretion the Company\' Board Directors. date, the Company has not matched employee contributions the ( ) savings plan. NOTE -- SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company identifies operating segments based product line information, considering line maturity, within the United States and separately identifies its international operations operating segment. The financial results the Company\' operating segments are reported the Company\' Chief Operating Decision Maker the following groupings: Books; Music; DVD video; International; and Early-Stage Businesses and Other. The results for Books, Music and DVD video have been aggregated into one reportable segment due the similarity their economic characteristics. The measure profit loss used for each reportable segment income (loss) from operations before other operating expenses, including stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and merger, acquisition and investment-related costs. Assets are not allocated operating segments for reporting the Company\' Chief Operating Decision Maker and there are intersegment revenues transactions between reportable segments. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income follows: BOOKS, EARLY-STAGE MUSIC AND BUSINESSES DVD VIDEO INTERNATIONAL AND OTHER CONSOLIDATED ---------- ------------- ----------- ------------ ( THOUSANDS) : Revenues from external customers......... $ , , $ , $ , $ , , Gross profit (loss)...................... , , ( , ) , Segment loss............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other operating expenses................. -- -- -- ( , ) Net interest expense and other........... -- -- -- ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees............................. -- -- -- ( , ) ---------- Net loss................................. -- -- -- ( , ) ========== : Revenues from external customers......... , , -- , Gross profit............................. , , -- , Segment loss............................. ( , ) ( , ) -- ( , ) Other operating expenses................. -- -- -- ( , ) Interest expense, net.................... -- -- -- ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees............................. -- -- -- ( , ) ---------- Net loss................................. -- -- -- ( , ) ========== : Revenues from external customers......... , -- -- , Gross profit............................. , -- -- , Segment loss............................. ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Other operating expenses................. ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Interest income, net..................... , -- -- , Equity losses equity-method investees............................. -- -- -- -- ---------- ---------- Net loss................................. $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ========== ========== Sales customers outside the represented approximately %, % and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. individual foreign country geographical area customer accounted for more than % net sales any the periods presented. There were transfers between geographic areas during the years ended December , , . Long-lived assets, which are comprised primarily fixed assets, held foreign countries totaled $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Depreciation expense for the Books, Music and DVD video segment was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Depreciation expense for the International segment was $ million and $ million and , respectively. Depreciation expense for the Early-Stage Business and other segment was $ million . NOTE -- SUBSEQUENT EVENTS February , , the Company completed offering E690, , ($ , , February , ) % Convertible Subordinated Notes due , also known PEACS. The PEACS are convertible into the Company\' common stock initial conversion price E104 per share. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Interest the PEACS payable annually arrears February each year, commencing February , . The PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated all the Company\' existing and future senior indebtedness. The PEACS rank equally with the Convertible Subordinated Notes. The conversion price will reset February , and February , the lesser ( ) the then effective conversion price and ( ) the euro equivalent average the daily closing prices the Company\' common stock for the consecutive trading days immediately preceding such date. However, event will the conversion price reset lower than E84 per share. The exchange ratio between the dollar and the euro not fixed the indenture governing the PEACS, and, therefore, fluctuations that ratio may impact whether the conversion price will reset. Subject certain conditions, the PEACS may redeemed the Company\' option prior February , , whole part, the redemption price , per note, plus accrued and unpaid interest, the closing price for the Company\' common stock has exceeded % the initial conversion price for least trading days within period consecutive trading days ending the trading day prior the date mailing the notice redemption. Upon any redemption made prior February , , the Company will make additional cash payment with respect the PEACS called for redemption amount equal E206 per , note redeemed, less the amount any interest actually paid such PEACS prior the call for redemption. any time and after February , , the Company may redeem the notes, whole part, their principal amount plus any accrued but unpaid interest. Upon the occurrence "fundamental change" ( defined the indenture governing the PEACS) prior the maturity the notes, each holder thereof shall have the right require the Company redeem all any part such holder\' PEACS price % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited Statement Operations information for each quarter , and . The Company believes that the following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , ----------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER --------- --------- --------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales.................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit................................. , , , , Net loss..................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share ( )......... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share..................... , , , , YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share................ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share................ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , - --------------- ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. ITEM CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. PART III ITEM DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information regarding our executive officers required Part III, Item , set forth Item Part herein under the caption "Executive Officers and Directors." Information required Part III, Item , regarding our directors included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. Information relating compliance with Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, set forth the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information required Part III, Item , included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT Information required Part III, Item , included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information regarding certain our relationships and related transactions included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. PART ITEM EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) LIST DOCUMENTS FILED PART THIS REPORT: ( ) INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) INDEX FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES: Schedule Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) INDEX EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- Agreement and Plan Merger dated April , and among Amazon com, Inc., Acquisition, Inc., Alexa Internet and Brewster Kahle (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated June , ) Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference Amendment . the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Registration Rights Agreement entered into May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Note Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated Reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ) + Accept com Financial Services Corporation Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ) + Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Investor Rights Agreement, dated June , , and among the Company, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VIII, KPCB Information Sciences Zaibatsu Fund and Jeffrey . Bezos (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Offer Letter Employment Joseph Galli, . dated June , , amended and restated September , . + Offer Letter Employment Warren . Jenson dated September , , amended and restated September , . + Offer Letter Employment Jeff Wilke, dated September , . + Offer Letter Employment Richard Dalzell, dated August , . Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. List Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Financial Data Schedule. - --------------- + Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) REPORTS FORM - : October , , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing its financial results for the third quarter . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this Report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, March , . AMAZON COM, INC. : / / JEFFREY . BEZOS --------------------------------------- Jeffrey . Bezos Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this Report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities indicated March , . / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Chairman the Board and Chief Executive - -------------------------------------------- Officer (Principal Executive Officer) Jeffrey . Bezos / / JOSEPH GALLI, . President, Chief Operating Officer and - -------------------------------------------- Director Joseph Galli, . / / WARREN . JENSON Senior Vice President, Chief Financial - -------------------------------------------- Officer and Chief Accounting Officer Warren . Jenson (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) / / TOM . ALBERG Director - -------------------------------------------- Tom . Alberg / / SCOTT . COOK Director - -------------------------------------------- Scott . Cook / / . JOHN DOERR Director - -------------------------------------------- . John Doerr / / PATRICIA . STONESIFER Director - -------------------------------------------- Patricia . Stonesifer AMAZON COM, INC. SCHEDULE -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS INVENTORY VALUATION ALLOWANCE CHARGED/ BALANCE (CREDITED) INVENTORY BALANCE BEGINNING COSTS DISPOSED END YEAR ENDED PERIOD AND EXPENSES WRITTEN OFF PERIOD ---------- ---------- ------------------- ------------ ---------- ( THOUSANDS) December , ............... $ , $ , $( , ) $ , ====== ======= ======== ======= December , ............... $ $ , $ ( ) $ , ====== ======= ======== ======= December , ............... $ -- $ $ -- $ ====== ======= ======== ======= ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant.......... ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation...................................... ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.................................................. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.............. PART ', 'item 14. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ......................................................... Signatures............................................................ PART ITEM . BUSINESS This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based current expectations, estimates and projections. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Forward-Looking Statements." GENERAL Amazon com, Inc. the world\' leading online retailer. have served over million customer accounts over countries. directly offer for sale millions distinct items categories such books, music, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement products. Through our marketplace services such Amazon com Auctions, zShops and sothebys amazon com, have created Web-based marketplaces where buyers and sellers can enter into transactions with respect wide range products. addition our Web site, currently have two internationally focused Web sites located www amazon and www amazon . have also invested and developed strategic commercial relationships with number selected -commerce companies. offer our customers superior shopping experience providing high value through selection, convenience, ease use, low prices, product information and intense focus customer service. are proven technology leader, having developed electronic commerce innovations such -Click technology, personalized shopping services, easy- -use search and browse features, secure payment protections and wireless access our stores. , significantly expanded our distribution capabilities worldwide with the addition eight new distribution centers comprising approximately four million square feet warehouse and distribution space. These new facilities increase our control over the distribution process and facilitate our ability deliver merchandise customers reliable and timely basis. Amazon com principally organized into three operating segments. The Books, Music and DVD/ video segment consists the Company\' online stores for books, music and DVD video. The Early-Stage Businesses and Other segment consists the Company\' online stores for electronics, software, video games, toys and home improvement products, marketplace services, and the Amazon com Commerce Network. The International segment consists all operations Germany and the . See Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated reference Item Part for additional information regarding our segments. Information contained the Company\' Web sites not part this Annual Report Form - . Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated Delaware. The Company\' principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. Amazon com completed its initial public offering May , and its common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." used herein, "Amazon com" includes Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. BUSINESS STRATEGY Amazon com seeks the world\' most customer-centric company where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy online. intend leverage our Internet platform expand the range products and services offered our customers. This platform consists strong brand recognition, large and growing customer base, innovative technology, extensive and sophisticated distribution capabilities and significant -commerce expertise. believe that this platform allows launch new -commerce businesses quickly, with high quality customer experience, economical incremental cost and good prospects for success. also believe that this platform allows expand the range products and services offered our customers through relationships with strategic partners terms that are attractive our customers, our strategic partners and . PRODUCTS AND SERVICES General Since our inception July , have rapidly expanded our product and service offerings and intend continue . Some our product and service offerings and their related launch dates are set forth below: PRODUCTS AND INTERNATIONAL PRODUCTS MARKETPLACE SERVICES LAUNCH DATE AND MARKETPLACE SERVICES LAUNCH DATE -------------------- ----------- ------------------------ ----------- Books July and German Books October Music June and German Music October DVD Video November and German Auctions November Auctions March and German zShops November Electronics July and German DVD Video March Toys July zShops October Home Improvement November Software November Video Games November sothebys amazon com November the past, have offered our products and services primarily through our online retail stores. March , introduced Amazon com Auctions, the first our marketplace services, which now also include sothebys amazon com and zShops. have recently entered into agreements expand the products and services offer allowing selected strategic partners sell products and services under -branded sections the Amazon com Web site. refer these new arrangements the Amazon com Commerce Network. Some the products and services sold through the Amazon com Commerce Network are described below under "Strategic Relationships." Our online retail stores currently consist books, music, DVD video, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement. With the exception books, which launched , and music and DVD video, which launched , launched all our online stores . anticipate new online store additions and beyond. Books, Music and DVD Video Segment. are the Internet\' number one books, number one music and number one DVD video retailer based upon our revenues. currently offer aggregate over million titles books, music and DVD video ( used herein, "titles" offered means the number items offered our catalogs). The Books, Music and DVD video segment had sales $ billion, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. During , continued enhance our Book Store expanding selection and improving the customer experience. created new specialty stores such our professional and technical store, expanded our editorial content through partnerships with experts certain fields and increased selection with the addition millions used and out- -print titles. During , our Music Store launched improved classical musical store, enhanced its product recommendation services and added new features promote independent artists via Amazon com Advantage. Amazon com became the first major online music retailer dedicate area its store free, full-length song downloads from established artists and major-label performers. Our DVD video Store enjoyed strong revenue growth . addition, our DVD video Store continued its integration with our Internet Movie Database (IMDb) Web site, leading online information source for movie enthusiasts, created and hosted the official Web site for "American Beauty," winner three Golden Globe( ) awards, and began streaming exclusive outtake footage from motion pictures such "The Blair Witch Project" and "Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged ." Early-Stage Businesses and Other Segment Other Retail. Amazon com\' other online retail stores consist electronics, software, video games, toys and home improvement. Marketplace Services. Amazon com\' marketplace services currently consist Amazon com Auctions, zShops and sothebys amazon com. Amazon com Auctions allows buyers and sellers conduct transactions with respect wide variety products easy use auction format. Amazon com zShops allows individuals and businesses offer popular well hard- -find items Amazon com\' customers. sothebys amazon com online auction site devoted art, antiques and collectibles. During the fourth quarter , these marketplace services surpassed combined million registered users and million listings. Since its launch November , sothebys amazon com has achieved average close rates, which are rates actual purchases customers bidding the site, excess % and average auction closing prices over $ . The participants our marketplace services can use our Amazon com Payments service, which allows individuals and small businesses accept credit card payments through Amazon com\' -Click payment feature, thus eliminating the problems associated with checks and money orders. Amazon com Commerce Network. have recently entered into agreements allow selected strategic partners promote their products and services our customers. These strategic partners are part the Amazon com Commerce Network and currently consist Greenlight com, online source for auto purchasing partnership with local dealerships; living com, online retailer home products and services; drugstore com, online retail and information source for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy; Audible, which delivers spoken audio over the Internet; Ashford com, online retailer luxury and premium products; and NextCard, Inc., online issuer consumer credit cards. believe that these arrangements will attractive Amazon com customers result the increase product and service selection available our site, our strategic partners result the potential growth their customer base and brand awareness, and result our ability offer customers expanded set products and services and the financial benefits receive. Revenue for the Early-Stage Businesses and Other segment was $ million. Amazon com had revenue from this segment previous years. International Segment. have two internationally focused Web sites located www amazon and www amazon . Each amazon and amazon was ranked the number one most visited -commerce site and the number most visited site overall the and Germany, respectively, according the Media Metrix ratings for Europe released January . Both these sites were launched October and currently have product and service offerings principally consisting books, music, DVD video, auctions and zShops. These international sites have the same look, feel and functionality the Web site, including -Click technology, personalized recommendations and product reviews, but offer content, products and services tailored the local market. The amazon Web site presented the German language. currently have distribution centers and customer service centers the and Germany. intend expand the product and service offerings these Web sites the future. Revenue for the International segment was $ million and $ million and , respectively. Amazon com had revenue for this segment . AMAZON COM WEB SITES The key features Amazon com\' Web sites include browsing, searching, useful product information, reviews, recommendations and personalization, broad selection, low prices, -Click technology, secure payment systems and availability and fulfillment. Our Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat purchases providing inviting and satisfying experience that encourages customers return frequently and interact with other customers. Browsing. The Amazon com sites offer visitors variety highlighted subject areas, styles and special features arranged simple, easy- -use fashion intended enhance product search and selection. addition, the Web sites present variety products and services and topical information. enhance the customers\' shopping experience and increase sales, feature variety products and services rotating basis throughout the stores. Searching. primary feature Amazon com Web sites their interactive, searchable catalogs millions books, music products, DVD videos, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement products. provide variety search tools find desired products based numerous search criteria. license some our catalog and other information from third parties. Reviews and Content. The Amazon com online stores offer numerous forms content enhance the customer\' shopping experience and encourage purchases. Various types content are available for particular titles, including cover art, synopses, annotations, reviews editorial staff and other customers, and interviews authors and artists. Recommendations and Personalization. Personalization features include greeting customers name, instant and personalized recommendations, personal notification services, and number other related features. Amazon com\' Wish List feature allows users create online wish list desired products and services that others can reference for gift-giving purposes. believe that personalization customer\' shopping experience our Web sites important element the value proposition offer customers, and intend continue enhance our personalized services. Other Web Site Services. The Amazon com Web sites provide other services make online shopping more enjoyable for our customers. our Gift Ideas section, feature seasonally appropriate selection gift ideas and services. our Community section, provide gathering place where customers can share product information and recommendations. Through our -Cards section, customers can send free animated electronic greeting cards friends and family. -Click Technology. Amazon com provides customers with streamlined ordering process using -Click technology. customer has previously activated -Click functionality, that customer can place order clicking one button without having fill out order form. The customer\' shipping and billing information automatically referenced our secure server. Secure Credit Card Payment. Amazon com seeks keep its customers\' information secure. Amazon com secure server software encrypts customers\' personal information, including credit card number, name and address, protect against interception the information travels over the Internet. Availability and Fulfillment. Many our products are available for shipment within hours, although some products take longer and some may not available all. Customers can select from variety delivery options, including overnight and various international shipping options, well gift-wrapping services. use -mail notify customers order status under various conditions and provide links shipping carriers that customers can track their shipments. seek provide rapid and reliable fulfillment customer orders and continue improve our speed availability and fulfillment. Remote Access. October , launched Amazon com Anywhere which allows Amazon com customers access the Amazon com site from hand-held wireless devices, such cellular phones and the Palm VII Connected Organizer, and utilize features such -Click purchasing and product-searching capabilities their wireless devices. Return Policy. For the days following receipt customer order, Amazon com provides full refund for any book its original condition, any Amazon com recommended book any condition, any unopened music , DVD video tape software, and any other merchandise item new condition, with its original packaging and accessories. STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS have entered into number strategic relationships with selected -commerce companies. These relationships have generally consisted our making, having the future right make, minority investment the companies and the entry into commercial agreements which vary scope from customer advertising activities and links recently announced deals involving the sale products and services -branded sections the Amazon com Web site. case exercise control over the investee. Certain our strategic relationships are listed below: COMPANY NATURE BUSINESS ------- ------------------ Ashford com.................... Online retailer luxury and premium products Audible........................ Internet-delivered spoken audio for -based listening playback devices Della com...................... Online service for gift registry, gift advice and personalized gift suggestions drugstore com.................. Online retail and information source for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy Gear com....................... Online source for brand-name sporting goods discount prices Greenlight com................. Online auto purchasing partnership with local dealerships HomeGrocer com................. Online grocery-shopping and home-delivery service Kozmo com...................... Online one-hour delivery service for entertainment and convenience products living com..................... Online retailer home products and services NextCard, Inc.................. Online issuer consumer credit cards Pets com....................... Online source for pet products, information and services Sothebys....................... Auction house cooperation with which maintain online auction site devoted art, antiques and collectibles believe that these investments and commercial arrangements are attractive for variety reasons. First, our customers receive access wider range products and services. Second, are able generate revenue from the strategic partners because help them sell the Amazon com customer base. Third, have the opportunity participate the future success our strategic partners result our ownership interest such companies. believe that our strategic partners are also well served result the opportunity grow their customer base quickly and build brand recognition. MARKETING AND PROMOTION Amazon com\' marketing strategy designed strengthen the Amazon com brand name, increase customer traffic the Amazon com Web sites, build customer loyalty, encourage repeat purchases and develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities. Amazon com creatively applies technology deliver personalized programs and services, well flexible merchandising. employ variety media, business development and promotional methods achieve these goals. also benefit from public relations activities well online and traditional advertising, including radio, television and print media. extend our market presence through our Associates Program, which enables associated Web sites make products available their audiences with order fulfillment Amazon com. February , , approximately , Web sites have enrolled the Associates Program. CUSTOMER SERVICE believe that our ability establish and maintain long-term relationships with our customers and encourage repeat visits and purchases depends, part, the strength our customer service operations. seek achieve frequent communication with and feedback from our customers continually improve the Amazon com experience. Users can contact customer service representatives via telephone and -mail hours day, days week. have automated certain tools used our customer service staff and have plans for further enhancements. December , , had customer service personnel working five customer service centers located Seattle and Tacoma, Washington; Slough, England; Regensburg, Germany; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. plan open additional customer service centers Huntington, West Virginia and The Hague, Netherlands . WAREHOUSING, INVENTORY, FULFILLMENT AND DISTRIBUTION significantly expanded our distribution infrastructure with the addition new distribution facilities Fernley, Nevada; Coffeyville, Kansas; Campbellsville, Kentucky; Lexington, Kentucky; McDonough, Georgia; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. also opened two new international distribution centers, one the and one Germany. aggregate basis, these eight new distribution centers comprised approximately four million square feet warehouse space. The geographic coverage these distribution centers and their capacity have dramatically improved our fulfillment capabilities and will allow continue increase our volume. The new distribution centers also give more control over the distribution process and facilitate our ability deliver merchandise customers reliable and timely basis. now have total distribution centers, including our facilities Seattle, Washington, and New Castle, Delaware. purchase products from network manufacturers, distributors, publishers and labels. For orders books, music, DVD video, software, video games and certain home improvement products that cannot filled from our inventory, our proprietary software selects the orders that can filled via electronic interfaces with vendors and, some cases, forwards the remaining orders our special orders group. This special orders group has developed customized information systems and consists trained ordering personnel who specialize hard- -find products. Under our arrangements with certain distributors, electronically ordered products often are shipped the distributor within hours receipt order from . With the addition new distribution centers and product lines, are required carry increased levels inventory order able meet customer demand and ship products customers timely basis. SEASONALITY Both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally declines during the summer. Sales the traditional retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics, software, video games and home improvement industries usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. The fourth quarter seasonal impact may even more pronounced our toys and electronics businesses. TECHNOLOGY have implemented numerous Web site management, search, customer interaction, recommendation, transaction-processing and fulfillment services and systems using combination our own proprietary technologies and commercially available, licensed technologies. Our current strategy focus our development efforts creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique our business and license acquire commercially developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. use set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory customer orders and ensuring proper shipment products customers based various ordering criteria. Our transaction-processing systems handle millions items, number different status inquiries, gift-wrapping requests and multiple shipment methods and allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing and charging customer credit cards. Amazon com Web sites also incorporate variety search and database tools. Systems administrators and network managers monitor and operate our Web sites, network operations and transaction-processing systems. The continued uninterrupted operation our Web sites and transaction-processing systems essential our business, and our Web site operations staff works make the sites reliable possible. use the services three Internet service providers obtain connectivity the Internet, both domestically and internationally, over multiple dedicated lines. COMPETITION The online commerce market new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics, software, video game and home improvement industries are intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include ( ) online vendors books, music, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics, software, video games, home improvement products and other products, ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines, that are involved online commerce, either directly collaboration with other retailers, ( ) online auction services, ( ) Web-based retailers using alternative distribution capabilities and ( ) publishers, distributors, manufacturers and physical-world retailers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order direct marketing. believe that the principal competitive factors our market include brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other Web site content, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use and our ability adapt changing conditions. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. may not able compete successfully against these and future competitors. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company regards its trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical its success, and relies trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with its employees, customers, partners and others protect its proprietary rights. The Company has been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents and copyrights and foreign governmental authorities. The Company also has applied for the registration other trademarks, service marks, copyrights and patents the and internationally. addition, the Company has filed and international patent applications covering certain its proprietary technology. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which the Company\' products and services are made available online. The Company has licensed the past, and expects that may license the future, certain its proprietary rights, such trademarks, patents, technology copyrighted material, third parties. EMPLOYEES December , , the Company employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees. The Company also employs independent contractors and temporary personnel. None the Company\' employees represented labor union, and the Company considers its employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel the Company\' industry intense, particularly for software development and other technical staff. The Company believes that its future success will depend part its continued ability attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could materially adversely affected. HAVE LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY UPON WHICH YOU CAN EVALUATE OUR BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS incorporated July and began offering products for sale our Web site July . Accordingly, have relatively short operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. You should consider our prospects light the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered online commerce companies. online commerce company, have rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model, face intense competition, must effectively manage our growth, and must respond quickly rapid changes customer demands and industry standards. may not succeed addressing these challenges and risks. HAVE ACCUMULATED DEFICIT AND ANTICIPATE FURTHER LOSSES have incurred significant losses since began doing business. December , , had accumulated deficit $ million. are incurring substantial operating losses and may continue incur such losses for the foreseeable future. These losses may significantly higher than our current losses. succeed, must invest heavily marketing and promotion and developing our product offerings and technology and operating infrastructure. addition, the expenses associated with our recent and future acquisitions and investments and interest expense related our outstanding notes will adversely affect our operating results. Our aggressive pricing programs have resulted relatively low product gross margins, need generate and sustain substantially higher revenues order become profitable. Our historical growth rates are not sustainable and our percentage growth rate will decrease the future. OUR SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT INDEBTEDNESS COULD AFFECT OUR BUSINESS have significant indebtedness. December , , had indebtedness under senior discount notes, convertible subordinated notes, capitalized lease obligations and other asset financing totaling approximately $ billion. With the sale our Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities( ), also known PEACS, February , incurred additional debt approximately $ million. may incur substantial additional debt the future. Our indebtedness could: - make difficult make principal and interest payments our debt, - make difficult obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements other purposes the future, - limit our flexibility planning for, reacting , changes our business and competition, and - make more difficult for react the event economic downturn. may not able meet our debt service obligations. our cash flow inadequate meet our obligations, may face substantial liquidity problems. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with other covenants our indebtedness, will default. This would permit our creditors accelerate the maturity our indebtedness. addition, the PEACS are denominated euros, not dollars, and the exchange ratio between the euro and the dollar not fixed the indenture governing the PEACS. Therefore, fluctuations the euro dollar exchange ratio may adversely affect , including potentially triggering certain reset provisions the PEACS that would lower the conversion price. CANNOT ACCURATELY FORECAST REVENUES OUR BUSINESS. MAY EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS. OUR BUSINESS SUBJECT SEASONAL FLUCTUATION. FUTURE FLUCTUATIONS OPERATING RESULTS REVENUE SHORTFALLS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SUCCESS Due our limited operating history and the unpredictability our industry, cannot accurately forecast our revenues. base our current and future expense levels our investment plans and estimates future revenues. Our expenses are large extent fixed. may not able adjust our spending quickly our revenues fall short our expectations. Further, may make pricing, purchasing, service, marketing, acquisition, investment financing decisions that could adversely affect our business results. Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate for many reasons, including: - our ability retain existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers\' demands, - our ability acquire merchandise, manage our inventory and fulfill orders, - changes gross margins our current and future products, services and markets, - our ability introduce, and the timing introductions and our competitors , popular books, music selections, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics products, software, video games, home improvement products and other products services, and our ability properly anticipate demand, - purchases large quantities toys, electronics products, software, video games, home improvement products and other products, particularly advance the holidays, for which demand may not materialize, - introduction our new Web sites, services and products those competitors, - termination Web sites, service offerings and product sales that determine are not viable, - changes usage the Internet and online services and consumer acceptance the Internet and online commerce, - timing upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure, - the level traffic our Web sites, - the effects acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability successfully integrate those acquisitions and business combinations, - technical difficulties, system downtime Internet brownouts, - the mix books, music products, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics products, software, video games, home improvement products and other products sell, - the mix revenues derived from products compared services, - our inability prevent fraud perpetrated third parties through credit card transactions, Amazon com Payments transactions, and auction and zShops transactions, - our level merchandise and vendor returns, and - disruptions service common shipping carriers due strikes otherwise. Both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally declines during the summer. Sales the traditional retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics and home improvement industries usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. The fourth quarter seasonal impact may even more pronounced our toys, electronics and video games businesses. For these reasons, you should not rely period- -period comparisons our financial results forecast our future performance. Our future operating results may fall below the expectations securities analysts investors, which would likely cause the trading price our common stock decline. COULD LOSE SUBSTANTIAL MARKET SHARE NOT KEEP WITH THE INTENSE COMPETITION THE ONLINE COMMERCE MARKET The online commerce market new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music, DVD video, toy, electronics, software, video game and home improvement industries are intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include: - online vendors books, music, DVDs, videos, toys, electronics, software, video games, home improvement products, and other products, - number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines, that are involved online commerce, either directly collaboration with other retailers, - online auction services, - Web-based retailers using alternative distribution capabilities, and - publishers, distributors, manufacturers and physical-world retailers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order direct marketing. believe that the principal competitive factors our market include brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other Web site content, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use and our ability adapt changing conditions. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing inventory policies. They also can devote more resources technology development and marketing than can. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Competition the Internet and online commerce markets will intensify. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may use their market power expand into the markets which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies may increase the competitive pressures online retailers. The nature the Internet electronic marketplace may facilitate competitive entry and comparison shopping and render inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. For example, "shopping agent" technologies permit customers quickly compare our prices with those our competitors. This increased competition may reduce our operating margins, diminish our market share impair the value our brand. MAY EXPERIENCE SYSTEM INTERRUPTIONS, WHICH AFFECT THE VOLUME ORDERS FULFILL AND THEREFORE OUR REVENUES, AND MAY AFFECT OUR BRAND NAME, AND OUR SYSTEMS ARE NOT FULLY INTEGRATED AND ARE NOT REDUNDANT Customer access our Web sites directly affects the volume orders fulfill and thus affects our revenues. experience occasional system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. These interruptions will continue. need add additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and network infrastructure accommodate both increased traffic our Web sites and increased sales volume and fully integrate our systems. Without these upgrades, may face additional system interruptions, slower response times, diminished customer service, impaired quality and speed order fulfillment and delays our financial reporting. cannot accurately project the rate timing any increases traffic sales volume our Web sites and, therefore, the integration and timing these upgrades are uncertain. addition, our inventory management systems are not fully integrated with our financial reporting systems, and significant amount manual effort may necessary reconcile our inventory and other financial accounts. maintain substantially all our computer and communications hardware single leased facility Seattle, Washington. Our systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. not have backup systems formal disaster recovery plan, and may not have sufficient business interruption insurance compensate for losses from major interruption. Computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins and similar disruptions could cause system interruptions, delays and loss critical data and could significantly diminish our reputation and brand name and prevent from providing services and accepting and fulfilling customer orders. OUR PLANNED GROWTH WILL CONTINUE PLACE SIGNIFICANT STRAIN OUR MANAGEMENT, OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will further expand our operations address potential growth our product and service offerings and customer base. This expansion will continue place significant strain our management, operational and financial resources. need successfully execute our expansion our distribution centers and customer service centers and continue improve our transaction-processing and operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. also need expand, train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel successfully identify, manage and exploit market opportunities, which may limit our growth. FACE SIGNIFICANT INVENTORY RISK ARISING OUT CHANGES CONSUMER DEMAND AND PRODUCT CYCLES. FACE ADDITIONAL INVENTORY RISKS BECAUSE OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ARE NOT WELL INTEGRATED AND BECAUSE CERTAIN OUR OPERATIONAL PROCESSES ARE MANUAL are exposed significant inventory risks result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and changes consumer tastes with respect our products. order successful, must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking understocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling new product, particularly difficult forecast product demand accurately. These issues are particularly pronounced with respect our inventory products that are based current trends, like toys. failure optimize inventory will harm our shipping margins requiring make partial shipments from one more locations. may also exposed inventory risk are unable negotiate satisfactory terms and conditions with our manufacturers, distributors and other suppliers. The acquisition certain types inventory, inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and pre-payment, and such inventory may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels products, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. are also exposed significant inventory risks because our inventory forecasting, purchasing, receiving, reconciliation, accounting and payment systems are not well developed and are not well integrated. The lack systems integration makes difficult and manual process receive inventory, reconcile inventory invoices purchase orders, account for inventory efficiently, request refunds from suppliers and pay supplier invoices. addition, certain manual operational processes further complicate our ability manage inventory efficiently. Any one the factors set forth above may require mark-down write-off inventory. Substantial inventory mark-downs write-offs will decrease gross margins. the fourth quarter , incurred inventory-related charges which significantly decreased our gross margins. ENTERING NEW BUSINESS AREAS WILL REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT EXPENSE AND COULD STRAIN MANAGEMENT, FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RESOURCES intend expand our operations promoting new complementary products, services sales formats and expanding our product service offerings. This will require significant additional expense and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. cannot expect benefit these new markets from the first- -market advantage that experienced the online book market. Our gross margins these new business areas may lower than our existing business activities. addition, may have limited experience these new business areas. may not able expand our operations cost-effective timely manner. Any new business that our customers not receive favorably could damage our reputation and brand name. NOT SUCCESSFULLY EXPAND AND OPERATE OUR DISTRIBUTION CENTERS, OUR BUSINESS COULD HARMED not successfully expand our distribution operations accommodate peak volumes, our distribution centers fail operate properly, could significantly limit our ability meet customer demand. During the fiscal year ended December , , added distribution centers Nevada, Georgia, Kentucky, Kansas, North Dakota, Germany and the . Most these distribution centers are will highly automated, and have had limited experience with automated distribution centers. The two distribution centers operated prior , Washington and Delaware, are manually operated. are not experienced coordinating and managing distribution operations geographically distant locations. Because difficult predict sales increases and lead times for developing distribution centers are long, may over-expand our facilities, which may result excess inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. also need retain flexibility within our distribution and logistics network, including the ability manage the operational challenges shipping non-uniform and heavy products part the fulfillment toy, electronics, home improvement and other product orders. THE DISPROPORTIONATE AMOUNT OUR NET SALES THAT EXPECT REALIZE DURING THE FOURTH QUARTER OUR FISCAL YEAR PLACES SIGNIFICANT STRAIN OUR BUSINESS Because expect disproportionate amount our net sales realized during the holiday season the fourth quarter our fiscal year, face significant risks the fourth quarter. may fail accurately predict the optimal inventory levels our distribution centers for the fourth quarter. not stock popular products sufficient amounts during the fourth quarter and fail meet customer demand, could significantly impact our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory mark-downs write-offs, which could reduce gross margins. the fourth quarter , incurred inventory-related charges, which significantly decreased our gross margins. failure optimize inventory our distribution centers will harm our shipping margins requiring make partial shipments from one more locations. addition, may experience decline our shipping margins due complimentary upgrades and split-shipments necessary ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. too many customers access our Web sites within short period time due increased holiday demand, may experience system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services, and may also harm our brand. addition, may unable adequately staff our distribution and customer service centers during these peak periods. Finally, our new automated distribution centers may fail operate properly, which will interfere with our ability meet customer demand. MAY NOT SUCCESSFUL OUR EFFORTS EXPAND INTO INTERNATIONAL MARKETS plan expand our presence international markets. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing and distributing products services for these markets and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. will costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally, and develop localized Web sites and stores and other systems. may not succeed our efforts these countries. Our revenues from international activities may not offset the expense establishing and maintaining foreign operations and therefore may never profitable. Our international sales and operations are subject number risks inherent selling and operating abroad, including, but not limited , risks with respect : - currency exchange rate fluctuations, - local economic and political conditions, - disruptions capital and trading markets, - restrictive governmental actions (such restrictions transfer funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs), - changes legal regulatory requirements, - import export licensing requirements, - limitations the repatriation funds, - difficulty obtaining distribution and support, - nationalization, - laws and policies the affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and - tax and other laws. the international online commerce market continues grow, competition this market will likely intensify. may have compete with local companies who understand the local markets better than and who have better local brand name recognition than . addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate the Internet other online services such areas content, privacy, network security, encryption distribution. This may affect our ability conduct business internationally. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth international markets. OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER ARE UNSUCCESSFUL MAKING AND INTEGRATING BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND STRATEGIC ALLIANCES plan continue expand our operations and market presence entering into business combinations, investments, joint ventures other strategic alliances with other companies. These transactions create risks such : - difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel combined companies, - disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses and other market developments, - problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel, - expenses associated with amortization goodwill and other purchased intangible assets, - additional operating losses and expenses acquired businesses, - impairment relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners, and - losses that may arise from our equity investments. may not succeed addressing these risks. part our business strategy, intend increase the number our strategic investments and alliances with online commerce businesses and other companies pursuant which they pay licensing other fees, such fees establish -branded stores our Web sites participate our auction zShops services. While believe these arrangements will have positive impact our results operations, particularly our gross margins, this strategy may not successful and these transactions create additional risk. For example, for strategic alliances where create -branded store our Web site, may experience difficulty integrating the other company\' systems create seamless customer experience, the other company may unable pay amounts owed the future and may suffer harm our brand the other company fails meet our standards for customer service, Web site performance and privacy, which would decrease customer satisfaction with our Web sites. addition, because often take portion our fees for establishing -branded store shares capital stock the other company, may never realize the full value that portion the fee. may not able make business combinations and strategic investments that are acceptable . not, our gross margins may not improve and may even deteriorate. addition, the businesses have acquired, and the future may acquire, may incur operating losses. MAY NOT ABLE ADAPT QUICKLY ENOUGH CHANGING CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS AND INDUSTRY STANDARDS Technology the online commerce industry changes rapidly. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology obsolete. succeed, must enhance our Web site responsiveness, functionality and features, acquire and license leading technologies, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technology and respond technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices cost-effective and timely basis. THE LOSS OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our chief executive officer and chairman the board. not have "key person" life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. RELY SMALL NUMBER SUPPLIERS; OUR BUSINESS WOULD HARMED OUR CURRENT SUPPLIERS STOP SELLING MERCHANDISE ACCEPTABLE TERMS Although increased our direct purchasing from manufacturers during , approximately % all our purchases during were from three major vendors, Ingram Book Group, Baker & Taylor, Inc. and Valley Media, Inc., from which purchase book, music, DVD and video titles. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. Our current vendors may stop selling merchandise acceptable terms. may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. MAY NOT ABLE ACQUIRE MAINTAIN APPROPRIATE DOMAIN NAMES hold rights various Web domain names, including "Amazon com," "Amazon ," "Amazon " and "zShops com." Governmental agencies typically regulate domain names. These regulations are subject change. may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. THE LONG-TERM VIABILITY THE INTERNET MEDIUM FOR COMMERCE NOT CERTAIN Consumer use the Internet medium for commerce recent phenomenon and subject high level uncertainty. While the number Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough meet the increased levels demand. The increased use the Internet medium for commerce raises concerns regarding Internet security, reliability, pricing, accessibility and quality service. use the Internet does not continue grow, grows slower rate than anticipate, the necessary Internet infrastructure complementary services are not developed effectively support growth that may occur, our business would harmed. MAY SUBJECT PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS PEOPLE PROPERTY ARE HARMED THE PRODUCTS SELL enter new lines business, may increasingly sell products, such toys and home improvement products, that may increase our exposure product liability claims relating personal injury, death property damage caused such products, and that may require take actions such product recalls. maintain liability insurance, but cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our vendor agreements with our suppliers not indemnify from product liability. GOVERNMENT REGULATION INTERNET COMMERCE EVOLVING AND UNFAVORABLE CHANGES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS are subject general business regulations and laws regulations regarding taxation and access online commerce. These laws regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. Regulatory authorities may adopt specific laws and regulations governing the Internet online commerce. These regulations may cover taxation, user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, and characteristics and quality products and services. Changes consumer protection laws also may impose additional burdens companies conducting business online, both the and internationally. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply the Internet and online commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. addition, many states currently regulate "auctions" and "auctioneers" conducting auctions and may regulate online auction services. States may also regulate consumer- -consumer fixed price online markets, like zShops. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. COULD REQUIRED COLLECT TAXES THE PRODUCTS SELL accordance with current industry practice, not currently collect sales taxes other taxes with respect shipments goods into states other than Washington. addition, collect Value Added Tax, VAT, for products that are ordered www amazon and www amazon and shipped into European Union member countries. Our new distribution center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion those networks, along with other aspects our evolving business, may result additional sales and other tax obligations. One more states foreign countries may seek impose sales other tax collection obligations out- -jurisdiction companies which engage electronic commerce . successful assertion one more states foreign countries that should collect sales other taxes the sale merchandise could result substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business. Recent federal legislation limits the imposition state and local taxes Internet-related sales. , Congress passed the Internet Tax Freedom Act, which places three-year moratorium state and local taxes Internet access, unless such tax was already imposed prior October , , and discriminatory taxes electronic commerce. There possibility that Congress may not renew this legislation . Congress chooses not renew this legislation, state and local governments would free impose new taxes electronically purchased goods. The imposition taxes goods sold over the Internet state and local governments would create administrative burdens for and could reduce one competitive advantage that the purchase goods over the Internet now possesses. The European Commission currently evaluating its VAT position electronic commerce transactions. possible that future VAT legislation the European Union changes our business model may result additional VAT collection obligations and administrative burdens. COULD LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL FRAUDULENT ACTIVITIES USERS OUR AUCTION AND ZSHOPS SERVICES may unable prevent users our auction and zShops services from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods unlawful manner. may face civil criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities our auction and zShops users. Any costs incur result liability relating the sale unlawful goods, the unlawful sale goods, the fraudulent receipt goods the fraudulent collection payments could harm our business. running our auction and zShops services, rely sellers goods make accurate representations and provide reliable delivery and buyers pay the agreed purchase price. For our auction and zShops services, not take responsibility for delivery payment goods and while can suspend terminate the accounts users auctions zShops who fail fulfill their delivery obligations other users, cannot require users make payments deliver goods. not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded other users except through our guarantee program. Under the guarantee program, fraudulent activities our auction and zShops users, such the fraudulent receipt goods and the fraudulent collection payments, may create liability for . addition, are aware that governmental agencies are currently investigating the conduct online auctions. COULD LIABLE FOR BREACHES SECURITY OUR WEB SITE AND FRAUDULENT ACTIVITIES USERS OUR AMAZON COM PAYMENTS PROGRAM fundamental requirement for electronic commerce the secure transmission confidential information over public networks. Although have developed systems and processes prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure mitigate such fraud breaches may impact our financial results. The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. guarantee payments made through Amazon com Payments certain limits for both buyers and sellers, and may unable prevent users Amazon com Payments from fraudulently receiving goods when payment may not made seller fraudulently collecting payments when goods may not shipped buyer. Our liability risk will increase larger fraction our sellers use Amazon com Payments. Any costs incur result liability because our guarantee payments made through Amazon com Payments otherwise could harm our business. addition, the functionality Amazon com Payments depends certain third-party vendors delivering services. these vendors are unable unwilling provide services, Amazon com Payments will not viable (and our businesses that use Amazon com Payments may not viable). COULD SUBJECT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INFORMATION POSTED OUR WEB SITE THIRD PARTIES Our Web site features customer reviews the products sell and customer ratings sellers our auctions and zShops sites. Although these reviews and ratings are generated customers and not , possible that claim could made against for reviews and ratings posted our Web site. become liable for information posted our Web site customers, could harmed and may forced discontinue certain services. MAY NOT ABLE ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS MAY ACCUSED INFRINGING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS THIRD PARTIES regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others protect our proprietary rights. have been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents and copyrights and foreign governmental authorities. also have applied for the registration some other trademarks, service marks, copyrights and patents the and internationally. addition, have filed and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available online. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Third parties that license our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patented technology copyrighted material, may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. addition, the steps take protect our proprietary rights may not adequate and third parties may infringe misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that infringed their proprietary rights. have been subject claims, and expect continue subject legal proceedings and claims, regarding alleged infringement our licensors and the trademarks and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the imposition damages that must pay. may need obtain license from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such license may not available terms acceptable , all. CANNOT SURE THAT THE YEAR PROBLEM WILL NOT AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Thus far, have had significant problems related year issues associated with the computer systems, software, other property and equipment use. However, cannot guarantee that the year problem will not adversely affect our business, operating results financial condition some point the future. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Year Implications." OUR STOCK PRICE HIGHLY VOLATILE The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. For example, during the fiscal year ended December , ( adjusted for the -for- split our common stock January , and the -for- split our common stock September , ), the reported sale price our common stock the NASDAQ National Market was high $ and low $ per share. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : - quarterly variations operating results, - announcements innovations, - new products, services and strategic developments our competitors, business combinations and investments our competitors, - changes our operating expense levels losses, - changes financial estimates and recommendations securities analysts, - performance other online commerce companies, and - news reports relating trends the Internet, book, music, DVD video, toys, electronics, software, video game, home improvement products, auctions, consumer- -consumer fixed price online markets, other product service industries. Any these events may cause our stock price fall, which may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. addition, the stock market general and the market prices for Internet-related companies particular have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated such companies\' operating performance. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price our common stock regardless our operating performance. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS The following tables set forth certain information regarding the executive officers and Directors the Company March , : EXECUTIVE OFFICERS NAME AGE POSITION ---- --- -------- Jeffrey . Bezos............................ Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Joseph Galli, ............................ President and Chief Operating Officer Warren . Jenson............................ Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer John . Risher.............................. Senior Vice President and General Manager, Retail Group Diego Piacentini............................ Senior Vice President and General Manager, International Richard . Dalzell.......................... Vice President and Chief Information Officer Mark . Britto.............................. Vice President, Strategic Alliances Jeffrey . Wilke............................ Vice President and General Manager, Operations Mark . Peek................................ Vice President, Finance JEFFREY . BEZOS. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President from founding until June and Treasurer and Secretary from May March . From December June , . Bezos was employed . Shaw & ., Wall Street investment firm, becoming Senior Vice President . From April December , . Bezos was employed Bankers Trust Company, becoming Vice President February . . Bezos also director drugstore com, inc. . Bezos received his . Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University. JOSEPH GALLI, . . Galli joined Amazon com June President and Chief Operating Officer. From until June , . Galli held variety positions with The Black and Decker Corporation, culminating president Black and Decker\' Worldwide Power Tools and Accessories. president, supervised the marketing, sales, manufacturing, engineering, finance, MIS, purchasing and product service departments. . Galli received . Business Administration from the University North Carolina and . from Loyola College. WARREN . JENSON. . Jenson joined Amazon com September Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. Before joining Amazon com, . Jenson was the Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President for Delta Air Lines from April September . From September April , . Jenson served Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President for the National Broadcasting Company (NBC), subsidiary General Electric, and participated efforts develop MSNBC, the cable-Internet joint news venture between NBC and Microsoft. . Jenson earned his Masters Accountancy -- Business Taxation, and . Accounting from Brigham Young University. JOHN . RISHER. . Risher has served Amazon com Senior Vice President and General Manager, Retail Group since February . . Risher joined Amazon com February Vice President Product Development. . Risher served Senior Vice President Product Development from November February and Vice President Product Development from February November . From July February , . Risher held variety marketing and project management positions Microsoft Corporation, including Team Manager for Microsoft Access and Founder and Product Unit Manager for Investor, Microsoft\' Web site for personal investment. . Risher received his . Comparative Literature from Princeton University and his . from Harvard Business School. DIEGO PIACENTINI. . Piacentini joined Amazon com Senior Vice President and General Manager, International February . From April until joining Amazon com, . Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager, Europe Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple Computer\' operations Europe, the Middle East and Africa. From April April , . Piacentini was European Sales Director Apple Computer, Inc. From May until April , . Piacentini was General Manager Apple Computer\' Italy operations, and before that, from September May , . Piacentini was Apple Computer\' Sales Director for Italy. . Piacentini joined Apple Computer . Prior that time held financial management position Fiatimpresit Italy. . Piacentini received degree Economics from Bocconi University Milan, Italy . RICHARD . DALZELL. . Dalzell joined Amazon com August Vice President and Chief Information Officer. From February August , . Dalzell held several management positions within the Information Systems Division Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., including Vice President Information Systems from January August . From , . Dalzell acted the Business Development Manager for -Systems, Inc. Prior joining -Systems, Inc. served seven years the United States Army teleprocessing officer. . Dalzell received . Engineering from the United States Military Academy, West Point. MARK . BRITTO. . Britto has served Vice President, Strategic Alliances since August . From June August , . Britto served Director Business Development. . Britto joined Amazon com June part the acquisition Accept com, which -founded October and served Vice President. From October through October , . Britto was Executive Vice President Credit Policy FirstUSA Bank, where was responsible for their credit risk management practice. Prior that, served Senior Vice President Risk Management NationsBank. . Britto received . Operations Research and . Industrial Engineering and Operations Research from the University California Berkeley. JEFFREY . WILKE. . Wilke has served Vice President and General Manager, Operations since September . Previously, . Wilke held variety positions AlliedSignal from , including Vice President and General Manager the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit from March September and General Manager the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from August February . Prior his employment AlliedSignal, was information technology consultant with Andersen Consulting. received . chemical engineering from Princeton University and has . and Master Science chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute Technology. MARK . PEEK. . Peek joined Amazon com March Vice President, Finance, and has been selected become Chief Accounting Officer beginning April , . Prior joining Amazon com, . Peek was, since , partner the independent public accounting firm Deloitte & Touche LLP where served lead partner for number that firm\' multi-national technology clients. . Peek joined Deloitte & Touche . . Peek received . Accounting, Economics and International Business from Minnesota State University. BOARD DIRECTORS NAME AGE POSITION ---- --- -------- Jeffrey . Bezos........................ Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Joseph Galli, ........................ President and Chief Operating Officer Tom . Alberg........................... Managing Director Madrona Venture Group, . Scott . Cook........................... Chairman the Executive Committee Intuit, Inc. . John Doerr........................... General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Patricia . Stonesifer.................. -Chair the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company does not own any real estate. Its principal office facilities the are located several leased facilities Seattle, Washington under leases that expire August through September . The Company\' office facilities the comprise total approximately , square feet. The Company\' warehousing and fulfillment operations for its Books, Music and DVD video segment and its Early-Stage Businesses and Other segment are housed eight distribution centers located Seattle, Washington; New Castle, Delaware; Fernley, Nevada; Lexington, Kentucky; Campbellsville, Kentucky; McDonough, Georgia; Coffeyville, Kansas and Grand Forks, North Dakota. These distribution centers comprise total approximately million square feet. The Seattle and Delaware distribution center leases expire October and October , respectively, and the remaining distribution center leases expire from through . The Company leases additional properties Europe for its International segment, including approximately , square feet office space Germany and the and distribution center each country with combined , square feet available space. The subsidiary will begin leasing additional , square feet distribution center space Marston Gate, England April . The lease for the German distribution center, located Bad Hersfeld, Germany, expires December . The lease for the new Marston Gate distribution center expires March . ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS January and February , three federal class action lawsuits were filed against the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Alexa Internet. The lawsuits, entitled Newby . Alexa Internet and Amazon com, Inc. (filed January , , the Northern District California), Bieles . Alexa Internet and Amazon com (filed January , , the Northern District California), and Supnick . Amazon com and Alexa Internet (filed February , , the Western District Washington), allege that Alexa Internet\' tracking and storage Internet Web usage paths violates federal and state statutes prohibiting computer fraud, unfair competition, and unauthorized interception private electronic communications, well common law proscriptions against trespass and invasion privacy. The complaints seek actual, statutory, and punitive damages, well restitution, behalf all users Alexa Internet\' Web navigation service, well injunctive relief prohibiting Alexa Internet from tracking and storing such information disclosing third parties. Although the Company disputes the allegations wrongdoing these complaints, there can assurance that the Company will prevail these lawsuits. addition, the Federal Trade Commission has requested information and documents regarding Alexa Internet\' practices and has opened formal investigative file connection with its inquiry. The Company cooperating voluntarily with the Federal Trade Commission\' investigation. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted for vote stockholders the Company during the fourth quarter the year ended December , . PART ITEM . MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT\' COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Market Information The common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. HIGH LOW ------- ------ Year ended December , First Quarter........................................... $ $ Second Quarter.......................................... Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... Year ended December , First Quarter........................................... $ $ Second Quarter.......................................... Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... The prices this table have been adjusted reflect the -for- stock split effected June , , the -for- stock split effected January , , and the -for- stock split effected September , . Holders February , , there were , stockholders record the common stock, although there much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. intend retain all future earnings finance future growth and, therefore, not anticipate paying any cash dividends the foreseeable future. addition, are restricted from paying cash dividends under our senior discount notes. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources." Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. ITEM . SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and the information contained herein Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations." Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------------------------------- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) STATEMENT OPERATIONS DATA( ): Net sales.................................... $ , , $ , $ , $ , $ Cost sales................................ , , , , , ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Gross profit................................. , , , , Operating expenses: Marketing and sales........................ , , , , Technology and content..................... , , , , General and administrative................. , , , , Stock-based compensation................... , , , -- Amortization goodwill and other intangibles.............................. , , -- -- -- Merger, acquisition and investment-related costs.................................... , , -- -- -- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Total operating expenses............... , , , , ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Loss from operations......................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Interest income.............................. , , , Interest expense............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( ) -- Other income, net............................ , -- -- -- -- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Net interest income (expense) and other............................... ( , ) ( , ) , ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Loss before equity losses equity-method investees.................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Equity losses equity-method investees.................................. ( , ) ( , ) -- -- -- ---------- --------- -------- ------- -------- Net loss..................................... $ ( , ) $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) $ ( ) ========== ========= ======== ======= ======== Basic and diluted loss per share( ).......... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========== ========= ======== ======= ======== Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share( ).................. , , , , , ========== ========= ======== ======= ======== DECEMBER , ----------------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- -------- ------ ------ ( THOUSANDS) BALANCE SHEET DATA( ): Cash.............................................. $ , $ , $ , $ $ Marketable securities............................. , , , , Working capital................................... , , , , Total assets...................................... , , , , , , Long-term debt.................................... , , , , -- -- Stockholders\' equity.............................. , , , , - --------------- ( ) Reflects restatement for pooling interests. See Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ( ) For further discussion loss per share see Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM . MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . This Act provides "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements encourage companies provide prospective information about themselves long they identify these statements forward looking and provide meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results differ from the projected results. All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward looking. use words such "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "future" and "intends" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\' current expectations and are inherently uncertain. The Company\' actual results may differ significantly from management\' expectations. This following discussion includes forward-looking statements regarding expectations future profitability the books business, gross margin, improvement operating loss and sales, all which are inherently difficult predict. Actual results could differ significantly for variety reasons, including the rate growth the Internet and online commerce, the amount that the Company invests new business opportunities and the timing those investments, customer spending patterns, the mix products sold customers, the mix revenues derived from product sales compared services, risks inventory management, and risks distribution and fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company\' actual results differ significantly from management\' expectations, are described greater detail the section entitled "Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results," which, along with the following discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\' expectations. RESULTS OPERATIONS Net Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE ---------- -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Net sales................... $ , , % $ , % $ , Net sales include the selling price products sold , net returns and gift certificate discounts, and also include outbound shipping charges. Shipping revenue was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Net sales also include commissions from auctions and zShops transactions, which include sales commissions, placement fees and fees from payment service transactions. Growth net sales and reflects significant increase units sold due the growth our customer base, repeat purchases from existing customers, increased international sales, and the introduction new product offerings. These new product offerings include music and DVD video June and November , respectively, toys and electronics July and home improvement, software and video games November . increased our issuance promotional gift certificates customers promote new product lines, however, which partially offset such growth net sales. The Company had approximately million, million and million cumulative customer accounts December , , and , respectively. The percentage orders repeat customers increased from % the fourth quarter % the fourth quarter . The increase net sales was also partially due the launch the and German focused Web sites October . Sales customers outside the represented approximately %, % and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. Gross Profit % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Gross profit.................. $ , % $ , % $ , Gross margin.................. % % % Gross profit consists net sales less the cost sales, which consists the cost merchandise sold customers, well inbound and outbound shipping costs and the cost tangible supplies used package product for shipment customers. Gross profit increased and absolute dollars, reflecting the Company\' increased sales volume. Gross margin decreased due the introduction new product lines, particularly toys and electronics, and inventory-related charges approximately $ million incurred the fourth quarter . also increased our issuance promotional gift certificates customers promote these new product lines, which decreased net sales and, therefore, gross margin. Additionally, realized lower shipping margins due increase partial shipments satisfy holiday demand and because split shipments from one more locations, which was caused our failure optimize inventory our distribution centers. Gross margin increased compared result improvements product costs through improved supply chain management, including increased direct purchasing from publishers, well higher overall shipping margins. These two factors more than offset the impact aggressive product pricing and lower music and video margins. noted above, outbound shipping costs are included cost sales. Gross profit from shipping, which represents shipping revenues less outbound shipping costs, was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. expect our overall gross margin approach % for the first quarter and for the year. believe that offering our customers attractive prices essential component our business strategy. For example, offer everyday discounts % every book the New York Times bestseller list, % hundreds thousands titles and % certain "special value" editions. may the future expand increase the discounts offer our customers and may otherwise alter our pricing structure and policies manner that may adversely impact gross profit and gross margin. intend continue expand our operations promoting new complementary products sales formats and expanding the breadth and depth our product and service offerings. Gross margins attributable new business areas may different from those associated with our existing business activities. the extent such product lines become larger components our sales, would expect corresponding impact overall product gross margin. believe that the Amazon com Commerce Network will tend increase gross margins the future because the revenue associated with the activities conducted Amazon com Commerce Network generates substantially higher gross profit than the Company\' sale products. See "Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results -- Our business could suffer are unsuccessful making and integrating business combinations and strategic alliances." Organizations responsible for promulgating accounting standards are currently reviewing the financial statement classification , and accounting for, fulfillment and order processing costs and other items number -commerce companies, including Amazon com. The review these accounting organizations may lead new accounting standards that could require that some all our fulfillment and order processing costs classified costs sales. currently include these costs Marketing and Sales. These new standards could also require capitalize certain our fulfillment and order processing costs inventory. currently expense these costs incurred. will adjust our accounting and classification fulfillment and order processing costs required accounting organizations the SEC. Marketing and Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Marketing and sales........... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales....... % % % Marketing and sales expenses consist advertising, promotional and public relations expenditures, credit card fees and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, selling and fulfillment activities. Fulfillment costs included marketing and sales expenses represent those costs incurred operating and staffing distribution and customer service centers, including costs attributable receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customers\' orders for shipment; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Marketing and sales expenses increased and primarily due increased payroll and related costs associated with fulfilling customer demand, increases our advertising and promotional expenditures the , Germany and the , and increased credit card fees resulting from higher sales. The increase was further attributable increased advertising during the holiday season and the promotion the new toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement stores. The increase was also attributable the entry into music and video sales and the launch new Web sites targeting Germany and the . Marketing and sales expenses increased percentage net sales compared primarily due increases fulfillment expenses associated with our expansion our distribution center network and customer service staff during . Marketing and sales expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. intend continue our advertising and marketing activities the future and expect that such expenditures will continue increase absolute dollars, but, percentage sales, will likely decline the future. also expect that fulfillment costs will decline percentage sales the future additional capacity our existing distribution center network more fully utilized. However, due risks related market share, seasonality, distribution centers, inventory management and other factors, advertising and marketing expenditures and fulfillment costs may not decline percentage sales. Organizations responsible for promulgating accounting standards are currently reviewing the financial statement classification , and accounting for, fulfillment and order processing costs and other items number -commerce companies, including Amazon com. The review these accounting organizations may lead new accounting standards that could require that some all our fulfillment and order processing costs classified costs sales. These new standards could also require capitalize certain our fulfillment and order processing costs inventory. currently expense these costs incurred. will adjust our accounting and classification fulfillment and order processing costs required accounting organizations the SEC. Technology and Content % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Technology and content......... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales........ % % % Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs acquired content, including freelance reviews. The increases technology and content expenses and were primarily attributable increased staffing and associated costs related continual enhancements the features, content and functionality our Web sites and transaction-processing systems, well increased investment systems and telecommunications infrastructure. These increases also were the result the costs developing, introducing and operating new product lines, operating expenses associated with acquired entities and, , the costs developing, introducing and operating new Web sites targeting Germany and the . Technology and content expenses increased percentage net sales due the significant number new product lines and services launched during the year. Technology and content expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. Technology and content costs are generally expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software that are capitalized and depreciated over estimated useful lives. believe that continued investment technology and content critical attaining our strategic objectives. addition ongoing investments our Web stores and infrastructure, intend increase investments products, services and international expansion. result, expect technology and content expenses continue increase absolute dollars. General and Administrative % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) General and administrative....... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales.......... % % % General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. The and increases general and administrative expenses were primarily result increased salaries and related expenses associated with the hiring additional personnel and legal and other professional fees related our growth. both and , additional expenses were incurred associated with acquired entities and the related international expansion and expanded activities. expect general and administrative expenses increase absolute dollars incur additional costs support the growth our business. Stock-based Compensation % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Stock-based compensation.......... $ , , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales........... % % % Stock-based compensation comprised the portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure key employees the acquired businesses, which must classified compensation expense rather than component purchase price under generally accepted accounting principles. Stock-based compensation also includes stock-based charges such option-related deferred compensation recorded our initial public offering, well certain other compensation and severance arrangements. The increase stock-based compensation resulted primarily from acquisitions closed . Stock-based compensation for and relates primarily option-related deferred compensation recorded the time our initial public offering. Amortization Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangibles % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ---- ( THOUSANDS) Amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles............ $ , % $ , $ Increases amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles primarily resulted from the amortization goodwill and other intangibles recorded the time our acquisitions Exchange com, Alexa Internet, Accept com, LiveBid com, the catalog and online commerce assets Acme Electric Motor . (Tool Crib the North), Back Basics Toys and other acquisitions. , amortization charges resulted from the amortization goodwill and other intangibles recorded the acquisitions Junglee and three smaller Internet companies. expect that amortization charges from the acquisitions consummated will increase based full year amortization for all the acquisitions. likely that will continue expand our business through acquisitions, which would cause amortization goodwill and other intangibles increase. Loss from Operations % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Loss from operations.......... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales....... % % % Our loss from operations increased from , and from , due continued expansion our business. Our operating expenses have historically increased more quickly than our revenues have expanded our operations. expect that our overall loss from operations incurred will decrease significantly percentage net sales, compared that percentage . Interest Income and Expense % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Interest income.................. $ , % $ , % $ , Interest expense................. , % , , % Interest income cash and marketable securities increased due higher investment balances resulting from the proceeds from the issuance $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the "Convertible Subordinated Notes") February and increased due the issuance approximately $ million gross proceeds % Senior Discount Notes due May , (the "Senior Discount Notes") May . Interest expense increased and due the interest expense associated with this debt, well amortization deferred charges associated with issuance the notes. February , , completed offering E690, , ($ , , February , ) % Convertible Subordinated Notes due , also known Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities, "PEACS." Therefore, expect interest expense increase the future for interest associated with these notes. Equity Losses Equity-Method Investees % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ---- ( THOUSANDS) Equity losses equity-method investees.......................... $ , , % $ , $ Equity losses equity-method investees represents our share losses companies which have investments that give the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. This generally defined ownership interest the voting stock the investee between % and %. made several equity-method investments and increased our investment the equity-method investment made . expect make additional equity-method investments the future. Many the companies which have invested date are the early stage their operations and are incurring net losses. Therefore, expect continue record losses our equity-method investments. July , one our equity-method investees, drugstore com, inc., completed the initial public offering its common stock. drugstore com operates online retail store and information site for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy products. connection with this transaction, recorded contribution additional paid- capital $ million, representing the difference between the carrying value our investment and the underlying net book value drugstore com after the IPO. Two our other equity-method investees, Pets com and Homegrocer com, completed their IPOs February and March , respectively. therefore will record contribution additional paid- capital connection with these transactions, and reasonably possible that other equity-method investees may complete IPOs the future. Income Taxes did not provide any current deferred federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because have experienced operating losses since inception. Utilization our net operating loss carryforwards, which begin expire , may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. have provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. PRO FORMA INFORMATION Pro forma information regarding our results, which excludes amortization goodwill and other intangibles, stock-based compensation, equity losses equity-method investees and merger, acquisition and investment-related costs, follows: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNT) Pro forma loss from operations............................. $( , ) Pro forma net loss......................................... $( , ) Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share................. $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic and diluted loss per share........................................... , Using the methodology described above derive pro forma loss from operations, our books business was profitable the fourth quarter and expect this business profitable . The pro forma results are presented for informational purposes only and are not prepared accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES December , , our cash balance was $ million, compared $ million December , . Our marketable securities balance, which includes highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Net cash used operating activities amounted $ million for . This was primarily attributable the net loss for the year $ million, partially offset non-cash charges related depreciation, stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles, and equity losses equity-method investees totaling $ million, well $ million cash provided changes operating assets and liabilities. Cash provided changes operating assets and liabilities primarily function increase accounts payable and accrued liabilities, offset increase inventories and prepaid expenses and other current assets. For , net cash provided operating activities was $ million and was primarily attributable non-cash expenses and increases accounts payable and accrued expenses, largely offset the net loss and increases inventories and prepaid expenses and other. Net cash used investing activities was $ million and consisted net purchases marketable securities $ million, purchases fixed assets $ million and cash paid for acquisitions and investments businesses $ million. Net cash used investing activities during was $ million and consisted net purchases marketable securities $ million, purchases fixed assets $ million and cash paid for acquisitions and investments businesses $ million. Net cash provided financing activities $ billion for was primarily due $ billion proceeds from the sale our Convertible Subordinated Notes February , partially offset repayment long-term debt, including $ million cash paid repurchase portion our outstanding Senior Discount Notes. Net cash provided financing activities $ million for primarily resulted from net proceeds approximately $ million from the Senior Discount Notes offering offset the repayment $ million long-term debt. December , , our principal sources liquidity consisted $ million cash and marketable securities. that date, our principal commitments consisted obligations outstanding under our Convertible Subordinated Notes due and Senior Discount Notes, well obligations connection with operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements. During , undertook substantial expansion our distribution center network the , adding six distribution centers the . also opened new distribution centers the and Germany. anticipate that our current distribution center capacity the will adequate for our needs for least the next months, but may require additional capacity international markets. May , completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds the Senior Discount Notes, February , completed the offering approximately $ billion Convertible Subordinated Notes, and February , completed the offering E690 million % Convertible Subordinated Notes due , also knows PEACS. See Notes and Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated reference Item Part . believe that current cash and marketable securities balances, together with net proceeds from the PEACS, will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. current cash, marketable securities and cash that may generated from operations are insufficient satisfy our liquidity requirements, may seek sell additional equity debt securities obtain credit facilities from lenders. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities could result additional dilution the Company\' stockholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition investment complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the repurchase and retirement debt, which might impact our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that financing will available amounts terms acceptable , all. YEAR IMPLICATIONS Many currently installed computer systems, software programs and embedded data chips are programmed using two-digit date field and are therefore unable distinguish dates beyond the 20th century. failure identify and correct any mission-critical internal third-party year processing problem could have material adverse operational financial consequence . established Year Project Team that, together with external consultants, developed process for addressing the year issue, including performing inventory, assessment, remediation procedures ( the extent necessary) and testing procedures all mission-critical information systems and equipment and machinery that contain embedded technology, well obtaining assurances from all mission-critical third parties their own year preparedness. the date filing this Annual Report Form - , all our mission-critical systems have been successfully tested for year compliance, and have not experienced any significant year problems with our own mission-critical systems any mission-critical third parties. Although have not experienced any significant year problems date, plan continue monitor the situation closely. cannot sure that will completely successful our efforts address the year issue that problems arising from the year issue will not cause material adverse effect our operating results financial condition. believe, however, that our most reasonably likely worst-case scenario would relate problems with the systems third parties rather than with our internal systems. are limited our efforts address the year issue relates third parties and rely solely the assurances these third parties their year preparedness. part our broader contingency planning, also developed business continuity plans address each critical process and activity that believe would cause significant disruption operations not functional for hours. Despite these efforts, cannot guarantee that the contingency plan will adequately address all circumstances that may disrupt operations that such planning will prevent circumstances that may cause material adverse effect our operating results financial condition. ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK not have any derivative financial instruments our marketable securities portfolio December , . However, are exposed interest rate risk debt instruments hold. employ established policies and procedures manage our exposure changes the market risk our marketable securities, which are classified available-for-sale December , and . Our Senior Discount Notes, Convertible Subordinated Notes, PEACS and other long-term debt have fixed interest rates and the fair value these instruments affected changes market interest rates. believe that the market risk arising from holdings our financial instruments not material. Our exposure currency exchange risk through December , has not been material. However, with the completion the offering PEACS notes February , , will exposed currency exchange risk because the debt denominated euros while our functional currency the dollar. plan employ established policies and procedures mitigate the risk exchange rate fluctuations. Additionally, the conversion price for the PEACS denominated euros. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources." The table below provides information about our marketable securities, including principal cash flows for through and the related weighted average interest rates. Principal (notional) amounts expected maturity dollars December , : ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE DECEMBER , THEREAFTER TOTAL ------- -------- ------- ------ ------- ---------- -------- -------------- Commercial paper and short-term obligations..... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % % % % % % Corporate notes and bonds.... , , -- -- -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % -- -- -- -- % Asset-backed and agency securities................. , , , , , , , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % % % % % % Treasury notes and bonds..... , , , , -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate....................... % % % % -- -- % ------- -------- ------- ------ ------- -------- -------- -------- Total Portfolio.......... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ======= ======== ======= ====== ======= ======== ======== ======== Principal (notional) amounts expected maturity dollars December , : ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE DECEMBER , THEREAFTER TOTAL -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ---------- -------- -------------- Commercial paper and short-term obligations...... $ , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % Corporate notes and bonds..... , , -- -- -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % % Asset-backed and agency securities.................. -- , , , , , , , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % % % % % Treasury notes and bonds...... , , , , -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate........................ % % % % % -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- Total Portfolio, excluding equity securities....... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ======== ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= ======== ======== ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE ---- Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors........... Consolidated Balance Sheets................................. Consolidated Statements Operations....................... Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity............. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows....................... Notes Consolidated Financial Statements.................. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item ( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / ERNST & YOUNG LLP Seattle, Washington February , , except for Note which the date February , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) ASSETS DECEMBER , ---------------------- ---------- -------- Current assets: Cash...................................................... $ , $ , Marketable securities..................................... , , Inventories............................................... , , Prepaid expenses and other current assets................. , , ---------- -------- Total current assets.............................. , , , Fixed assets, net........................................... , , Goodwill, net............................................... , , Other purchased intangibles, net............................ , , Investments equity-method investees...................... , , Other investments........................................... , -- Deferred charges and other.................................. , , ---------- -------- Total assets...................................... $ , , $ , ========== ======== LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable.......................................... $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities............ , , Accrued advertising....................................... , , Deferred revenue.......................................... , -- Interest payable.......................................... , Current portion long-term debt and other............... , ---------- -------- Total current liabilities......................... , , Long-term debt and other.................................... , , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , Issued and outstanding shares -- none.................. -- -- Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , , Issued and outstanding shares -- , and , shares December , and , respectively.... , , Additional paid- capital................................ , , , Note receivable for common stock.......................... ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation.................................. ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)............. ( , ) , Accumulated deficit....................................... ( , ) ( , ) ---------- -------- Total stockholders\' equity........................ , , ---------- -------- Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity........ $ , , $ , ========== ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ----------------------------------- ---------- --------- -------- Net sales................................................ $ , , $ , $ , Cost sales............................................ , , , , ---------- --------- -------- Gross profit........................................ , , , Operating expenses: Marketing and sales.................................... , , , Technology and content................................. , , , General and administrative............................. , , , Stock-based compensation............................... , , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles......... , , -- Merger, acquisition and investment-related costs....... , , -- ---------- --------- -------- Total operating expenses....................... , , , ---------- --------- -------- Loss from operations..................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest income.......................................... , , , Interest expense......................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other income, net........................................ , -- -- ---------- --------- -------- Net interest income (expense) and other............. ( , ) ( , ) , ---------- --------- -------- Loss before equity losses equity-method investees.............................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees.............. ( , ) ( , ) -- ---------- --------- -------- Net loss................................................. $ ( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ========== ========= ======== Basic and diluted loss per share......................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========== ========= ======== Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share.................................................. , , , ========== ========= ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( THOUSANDS) ACCUMULATED PREFERRED STOCK COMMON STOCK ADDITIONAL NOTE RECEIVABLE OTHER --------------- ---------------- PAID- FOR DEFERRED COMPREHENSIVE SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT CAPITAL COMMON STOCK COMPENSATION INCOME (LOSS) ------ ------ ------- ------ ---------- --------------- ------------ ------------- Balance January , .... $ , $ , $ , $ -- $ ( ) $ -- Net loss..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Sale preferred stock...... -- -- -- -- -- -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs...... -- -- , , -- -- -- Conversion preferred stock into common stock.......... ( ) ( ) , ( ) -- -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued technology and content..... -- -- , , -- -- -- Issuance capital stock.... -- -- , , -- -- -- Exercise common stock options.................... -- -- , -- -- -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- -- -- -- ( ) -- , -- ---- --- ------- ------ ---------- ------- -------- ------- Balance December , ......................... -- -- , , , -- ( , ) -- Net loss..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation losses..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ( ) Change unrealized gain marketable securities...... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- , Comprehensive loss............ Issuance capital stock.... -- -- , , -- -- -- Exercise common stock options.................... -- -- , , -- -- -- Note receivable for common stock...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( , ) -- -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- -- -- -- -- -- , -- ---- --- ------- ------ ---------- ------- -------- ------- Balance December , ......................... -- -- , , , ( , ) ( , ) , Net loss..................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation gains...................... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Change unrealized gain (loss) marketable securities, net reclassification adjustment................. -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ( , ) Comprehensive loss............ Issuance capital stock.... -- -- , , -- -- -- Exercise common stock options.................... -- -- , , -- -- -- Initial public offering equity-method investee..... -- -- -- -- , -- -- -- Note receivable for common stock...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) -- -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- -- -- -- -- -- , -- ---- --- ------- ------ ---------- ------- -------- ------- Balance December , ......................... -- $-- , $ , $ , , $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ==== === ======= ====== ========== ======= ======== ======= TOTAL ACCUMULATED STOCKHOLDERS\' DEFICIT EQUITY ----------- ------------- Balance January , .... $ ( , ) $ , Net loss..................... ( , ) ( , ) Sale preferred stock...... -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs...... -- , Conversion preferred stock into common stock.......... -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued technology and content..... -- , Issuance capital stock.... -- , Exercise common stock options.................... -- Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- , --------- --------- Balance December , ......................... ( , ) , --------- Net loss..................... ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation losses..................... -- ( ) Change unrealized gain marketable securities...... -- , --------- Comprehensive loss............ ( , ) --------- Issuance capital stock.... -- , Exercise common stock options.................... -- , Note receivable for common stock...................... -- ( , ) Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- , --------- --------- Balance December , ......................... ( , ) , --------- Net loss..................... ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains...................... -- Change unrealized gain (loss) marketable securities, net reclassification adjustment................. -- ( , ) --------- Comprehensive loss............ ( , ) --------- Issuance capital stock.... -- , Exercise common stock options.................... -- , Initial public offering equity-method investee..... -- , Note receivable for common stock...................... -- ( ) Deferred stock-based compensation............... -- -- Amortization deferred stock-based compensation... -- , --------- --------- Balance December , ......................... $( , ) $ , ========= ========= See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( THOUSANDS) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ------------------------------------- ----------- --------- --------- OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net loss................................................... $ ( , ) $( , ) $ ( , ) Adjustments reconcile net loss net cash provided (used) operating activities: Depreciation and amortization fixed assets............ , , , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation........ , , , Equity losses equity-method investees.............. , , -- Amortization goodwill and other intangibles........... , , -- Non-cash merger, acquisition, and investment related costs................................................. , , -- Non-cash revenue for advertising and promotional services.............................................. ( , ) -- -- Loss sale marketable securities.................... , -- Non-cash interest expense................................ , , ----------- --------- --------- Net cash used operating activities before changes operating assets and liabilities...................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Changes operating assets and liabilities, net effects from acquisitions: Inventories........................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Prepaid expenses and other current assets............. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts payable...................................... , , , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities........ , , , Accrued advertising................................... , , , Deferred revenue...................................... -- -- Interest payable...................................... , ( ) -- ----------- --------- --------- Net cash provided changes operating assets and liabilities, net effects from acquisitions................................... , , , ----------- --------- --------- Net cash provided (used) operating activities..................................... ( , ) , INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Sales and maturities marketable securities.............. , , , , Purchases marketable securities......................... ( , , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets.................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisitions and investments businesses, net cash acquired................................................. ( , ) ( , ) -- ----------- --------- --------- Net cash used investing activities............ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from issuance capital stock and exercise stock options............................................ , , , Proceeds from long-term debt............................... , , , , Repayment long-term debt................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Financing costs............................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ----------- --------- --------- Net cash provided financing activities........ , , , , Effect exchange rate changes............................ ( ) -- ----------- --------- --------- Net increase cash....................................... , , , Cash beginning period................................ , , ----------- --------- --------- Cash end period...................................... $ , $ , $ , =========== ========= ========= SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Fixed assets acquired under capital leases................. $ , $ -- $ , Fixed assets acquired under financing agreements........... , -- , Stock issued connection with business acquisitions...... , , -- Equity securities other companies received for non-cash revenue for advertising and promotional services......... , -- -- Cash paid for interest, net amounts capitalized......... , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE -- ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Inc. (Amazon com the Company) was incorporated July and opened its virtual doors the Web July . Amazon com Internet retailer offering more than million unique items categories including books, music, DVD video, toys, electronics, software, video games and home improvement products. Amazon com offers free electronic greeting card service and also provides community online shoppers with easy and safe way purchase and sell large selection products through Amazon com Auctions and zShops. Business Combinations and Investments For business combinations that have been accounted for under the purchase method accounting, the Company includes the results operations the acquired business from the date acquisition. Net assets the companies acquired are recorded their fair value the date acquisition. The excess the purchase price over the fair value tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired included goodwill the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. One business combination was accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. this case, the assets, liabilities and stockholders\' equity the acquired entity was combined with the Company\' respective accounts recorded values. The consolidated financial statements reflect the restatement all periods presented include the accounts the acquired entity accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. The historical results the pooled entity reflect its actual operating cost structures and, result, not necessarily reflect the cost structure the newly combined entity. The historical results not purport indicative future results. Investments affiliated entities which the Company has the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, investee, generally ownership interest the voting stock between % and %, are accounted for under the equity method accounting. Accordingly, under the equity method accounting, the Company\' share the investee\' earnings loss included the consolidated statements operations. The Company records its investments equity-method investees the consolidated balance sheets "Investments equity-method investees" and its share the investees\' earnings losses "Equity losses equity-method investees." The portion the Company\' investment equity-method investee that exceeds its claim the net assets the investee, any, assigned goodwill and amortized over period three years. The goodwill amount, which was $ million December , , included "Investments equity-method investees" the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, and the amortization the goodwill included "Equity losses equity-method investees" the accompanying consolidated statements operations. All other investments, which consist investments for which the Company does not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method accounting. Dividends and other distributions earnings from other investees, any, are included income when declared. The Company periodically evaluates the carrying value its investments accounted for under the cost method accounting and December , and , such investments were recorded the lower cost estimated net realizable value. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities and disclosure contingent assets and liabilities the date the financial statements and the reported amounts revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Marketable Securities The Company\' marketable securities, which consist primarily high-quality short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds, are classified available-for-sale and are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reported, net taxes, component stockholders\' equity within accumulated other comprehensive income. Unrealized losses are charged against income when decline fair value determined other than temporary. The specific identification method used determine the cost securities sold. The Company classifies all investments cash marketable securities, including highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, and reflects the related cash flows investing cash flows. result the classification highly liquid investments within marketable securities, significant portion the Company\' gross marketable securities purchases and maturities disclosed investing cash flows related highly liquid investments. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are valued the lower cost (specific identification) market. Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two ten years). Fixed assets purchased under capital leases are amortized straight-line basis over the lesser the estimated useful life the asset the lease term. Included fixed assets the cost internal-use software, including software used connection with the Company\' Web sites. The Company expenses all costs related the development internal-use software other than those incurred during the application development stage. Costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software (generally two years). Goodwill, Net Goodwill, net, represents the excess the purchase price over the fair value assets acquired business acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method. Goodwill presented net related accumulated amortization and being amortized over lives ranging from two four years. Other Purchased Intangibles, Net Other purchased intangibles, net, include identifiable intangible assets purchased the Company, primarily connection with business acquisitions. Other purchased intangibles are presented net related accumulated amortization and are being amortized over lives ranging from two four years. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Long-Lived Assets The carrying values intangible assets and other long-lived assets, including equity-method investments, are reviewed regular basis for the existence facts circumstances, both internally and externally, that may suggest impairment. date, such impairment has been indicated. Fair Value Financial Instruments The carrying amounts for the Company\' cash, accounts payable and other liabilities approximate fair value. The fair market value for long-term debt and marketable securities based quoted market prices where available. Deferred Charges Deferred charges consist fees associated with the issuance the Company\' debt. The fees are being amortized and included interest expense over the life the related debt. Deferred Revenue Deferred revenue consists advertising fees earned the future under agreements existing the balance sheet date. Income Taxes The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected effect when the differences are expected recovered. The Company provides valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which does not consider realization such assets more likely than not. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue from product sales, net any promotional gift certificates, when the products are shipped customers, which also when title passes customers. Outbound shipping charges are included net sales and amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Revenue from gift certificates recognized upon product shipment following redemption. The Company provides allowance for sales returns based historical experience. Revenues from services are recorded the time the related service performed. During , the Company recorded approximately $ million revenue associated with noncash transactions whereby the Company received equity securities other companies exchange for advertising and promotional services provided for fixed period time. The Company recorded the fair value the consideration the date received, $ million, and recognizing revenue ratably over the term the agreements the advertising and promotional services are provided. Cost Sales Cost sales consists the actual cost products purchased for resale and related -bound shipping charges, out-bound shipping charges, and the actual cost tangible supplies used package products for shipment customers. Outbound shipping charges and the cost tangible supplies used package products for shipment customers totaled $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Fulfillment Costs Included marketing and sales expense are fulfillment costs, which consist the cost operating and staffing distribution and customer service centers. Such costs include those attributable receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customers\' orders for shipment; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Advertising Costs The cost advertising expensed incurred. For the years ended December , , and , the Company incurred advertising expense $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants, systems and telecommunications infrastructure and costs acquired content. Technology and content costs are generally expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software, including those relating the Company\' Web sites, that are capitalized and depreciated over estimated useful lives. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees (APB . ), and related interpretations, accounting for its employee stock options rather than the alternative fair value accounting allowed Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. APB . provides that the compensation expense relative the Company\' employee stock options measured based the intrinsic value the stock option. SFAS . requires companies that continue follow APB . provide pro forma disclosure the impact applying the fair value method SFAS . . Foreign Currency Translation The functional currency the Company\' foreign subsidiaries the local currency. Assets and liabilities foreign subsidiaries are translated into dollars year-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are included accumulated other comprehensive income, separate component stockholders\' equity. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved, which have been insignificant, are included the consolidated statements operations. date, the Company has entered into foreign currency exchange contracts. Concentrations Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company concentrations credit risk consist principally its holdings cash and marketable securities. The Company\' credit risk managed investing its cash and marketable securities high-quality money market instruments and securities the government and its agencies, foreign governments and high-quality corporate issuers. December , and , the Company had significant concentrations credit risk. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Earnings (Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share excludes any dilutive effects options, warrants and convertible securities. Basic earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding, net shares subject repurchase, during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common and common stock equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation their effect antidilutive. result the Company\' initial public offering May , all preferred stock automatically converted into common stock. Accordingly, the net loss per share pro forma loss per share based the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding and preferred stock " " converted basis outstanding during each period. The Company believes that this more meaningful presentation earnings per share for periods prior its initial public offering. New Accounting Pronouncements December , the Securities and Exchange Commission staff released Staff Accounting Bulletin . , Revenue Recognition Financial Statements (SAB . ), which provides guidance the recognition, presentation and disclosure revenue financial statements. SAB . did not impact the Company\' revenue recognition policies. June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. amended SFAS . , SFAS . effective for all fiscal quarters all fiscal years beginning after June , . SFAS . requires that all derivative instruments recorded the balance sheet their fair value. Changes the fair value derivatives are recorded each period current earnings other comprehensive income, depending whether derivative designed part hedge transaction and, , the type hedge transaction. The Company has not yet determined the impact the adoption SFAS . its consolidated financial statements business practices. Reclassifications Certain prior year balances have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. NOTE -- BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The Company completed the following acquisitions during : -Niche Incorporated (Exchange com), Accept com Financial Services Corporation (Accept com), Alexa Internet (Alexa), LiveBid com, Inc. (LiveBid) the catalog and online commerce assets Acme Electric Motor . (Tool Crib) and Back Basics Toys, Inc. (Back Basics). Each acquisition was recorded using the purchase method accounting under APB Opinion . . Results operations for each acquired company have been included the financial results the Company from the closing date each transaction forward. accordance with APB Opinion . , all identifiable assets were assigned portion the cost the acquired companies (purchase price) the basis their respective fair values. Intangible assets were identified and valued considering the Company\' intended use acquired assets and analysis data concerning products, technologies, markets, historical financial performance, and underlying assumptions future performance. The economic and competitive environment which the Company and the acquired companies operate was also considered the valuation analysis. Approximately $ million the purchase price the Accept com and Alexa transactions attributable -process research and development efforts has been expensed because, the time acquisition, technological feasibility had not been established and alternative future uses existed. Purchased -process AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) research and development was identified and valued independent valuation through discussions with the acquired companies\' management and the analysis data concerning developmental products, their respective stage development, the time and resources needed complete them, their expected income generating ability, target markets and associated risks. May , , the Company completed its acquisition Exchange com, developer Internet marketplaces and related online communities that bring together buyers and sellers rare and hard- -find items. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding Exchange com stock options and issued , , shares Amazon com common stock acquire all the outstanding common shares Exchange com. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. Pursuant the terms the agreement, the Company may required issue additional shares with value $ million one year after the acquisition date dependent certain performance goals, which would increase the purchase price this amount. May , , the Company completed its acquisition LiveBid, technology provider for live, event-based auctions the Internet. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding LiveBid stock options and issued , shares acquire all the outstanding common shares LiveBid. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. June , , the Company completed its acquisition Accept com, -commerce company developing technology simplify person- -person and business- -consumer transactions the Internet. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding Accept com stock options and issued , , shares Amazon com common stock acquire all the outstanding common shares Accept com. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. June , , the Company completed its acquisition Alexa, developer Web navigation service that works with Internet browsers provide useful information about the sites being viewed and suggests related sites. connection with the acquisition, the Company assumed all outstanding Alexa stock options and issued , , shares Amazon com common stock acquire all the outstanding common shares Alexa. Substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. October , and November , , respectively, the Company completed its acquisition the catalog and online commerce assets Tool Crib, retailer home improvement products, and its acquisition Back Basics, catalog retailer toys. connection with these acquisitions, the Company issued total , , shares Amazon com common stock. the approximately $ million aggregate purchase price, approximately $ million was allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately four years. The Company made additional immaterial acquisitions during totaling $ million. The Company issued , shares common stock effect these acquisitions. connection with certain acquisitions, the Company has conditioned portion the overall consideration the continued tenure key employees. Under generally accepted accounting principles, portion this amount accounted for compensation rather than component purchase price. Consequently, AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) maximum $ million additional consideration relating the Company\' acquisitions for may recorded compensation expense and classified between stock-based compensation and merger, acquisition and investment-related costs the results operations. Amounts will "earned" based tenure certain employees and will recognized expense over period - months. April , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock three international Internet companies. The aggregate purchase price the three acquisitions, plus related charges, was approximately $ million. The consideration for the acquisitions was comprised common stock and cash. The Company issued aggregate approximately million shares common stock effect the transactions. The goodwill and other purchased intangibles are being amortized straight-line basis over two years. August , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock Junglee Corp. (Junglee). Junglee was leading provider advanced Web-based virtual database technology help shoppers find and discover products the Internet. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options and warrants connection with the acquisition Junglee. The Junglee acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method accounting, with substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. The pro forma consolidated financial information for years ended December , and , determined all acquisitions had occurred January each year, would have resulted net sales $ billion and $ million, net loss $ million and $ million, and basic and diluted loss per share $ and $ , respectively. This unaudited pro forma information presented for illustrative purposes only and not necessarily indicative the results operations future periods results that would have been achieved had Amazon com and the acquired companies been combined during the specified periods. August , the Company exchanged common stock and options for all the outstanding capital stock Sage Enterprises, Inc. (PlanetAll). The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options connection with the merger. The PlanetAll merger was accounted for pooling interests and, result, the Company\' consolidated financial statements have been restated for all periods presented. PlanetAll issued approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million and approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million January and April , respectively. Net sales for PlanetAll were not significant and net loss was $ million and $ million for the nine months ended September , and the year ended December , , respectively, which represent separate results the combined entity through the periods preceding the merger. There were significant intercompany transactions between the two companies and significant conforming accounting adjustments. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize, major security type, the Company\' marketable securities: DECEMBER , --------------------------------------------------- GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED ESTIMATED COST GAINS LOSSES FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Commercial paper and short-term obligations........................... $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Corporate notes and bonds............... , -- ( , ) , Asset-backed and agency securities...... , ( , ) , Treasury notes and bonds................ , ( , ) , -------- ---- -------- -------- $ , $ $( , ) $ , ======== ==== ======== ======== DECEMBER , --------------------------------------------------- GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED ESTIMATED COST GAINS LOSSES FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Commercial paper and short-term obligations........................... $ , $ $ -- $ , Corporate notes and bonds............... , ( ) , Asset-backed and agency securities...... , ( ) , Treasury notes and bonds................ , ( ) , Equity securities....................... , , -- , -------- ------ ----- -------- $ , $ , $( ) $ , ======== ====== ===== ======== December , , the Company also had investments noncurrent available-for-sale equity securities included "Other investments" (Note ). The following table summarizes contractual maturities the Company\' marketable securities December , : AMORTIZED ESTIMATED COST FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Due within one year.................................... $ , $ , Due after one year through five years.................. , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities........................................... , , -------- -------- $ , $ , ======== ======== The gross realized gains and losses sales available-for-sale securities were $ million and $ million, respectively, for the year ended December , . Gross realized gains and losses sales available-for-sale securities were not significant for the years ended December , . Activity unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities was follows: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------- ---------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during period............................................... $( , ) $ , $-- Less: reclassification adjustment for losses included net loss.......................................... , -- -- -------- ------ --- Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities........................................... $ ( , ) $ , $-- ======== ====== === AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consist the following: DECEMBER , -------------------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Computers, equipment and software...................... $ , $ , Leasehold improvements................................. , , Leased assets.......................................... , Construction progress............................... , , -------- -------- , , Less accumulated depreciation and amortization......... ( , ) ( , ) -------- -------- Fixed assets, net................................. $ , $ , ======== ======== The Company capitalized approximately $ million interest during the year ended December , . NOTE -- GOODWILL AND OTHER PURCHASED INTANGIBLES Goodwill and other purchased intangibles are stated net related accumulated amortization, follows: DECEMBER , --------------------- --------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Goodwill.............................................. $ , $ , Less accumulated amortization......................... ( , ) ( , ) --------- -------- Goodwill, net.................................... , , ========= ======== Other purchased intangibles........................... , , Less accumulated amortization......................... ( , ) ( , ) --------- -------- Other purchased intangibles, net................. $ , $ , ========= ======== NOTE -- INVESTMENTS The Company has several equity-method investments included "Investments equity-method investees" the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. December , , the Company\' only equity-method investment was % ownership interest drugstore com, inc. (drugstore com). cases does the Company have the ability control these investees. December , , the Company\' equity-method investees and the Company\' approximate ownership interest each investee, based outstanding shares, were follows: PERCENTAGE COMPANY OWNERSHIP ------- ---------- Della com................................................. % drugstore com............................................. % Gear com.................................................. % HomeGrocer com............................................ % Kozmo com................................................. % Naxon Corporation......................................... % Pets com.................................................. % AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Summarized balance sheet information the Company\' equity-method investees follows: DECEMBER , ------------------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Current assets.......................................... $ , $ , Noncurrent assets....................................... , , Current liabilities..................................... , , Noncurrent liabilities.................................. , Summarized statement operations information the Company\' equity-method investees, calculated for each investee for the period during which the Company had investments such investees, follows: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------- ---------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Net sales................................... $ , $ -- $ -- Gross profit (loss)......................... ( , ) -- -- Net loss.................................... ( , ) ( , ) -- July , drugstore com completed the initial public offering (IPO) its common stock. drugstore com operates online retail store and information site for health, beauty, wellness, personal care and pharmacy products. Prior the IPO, the Company owned , , shares drugstore com common stock, which represented % the outstanding shares. drugstore com sold , , shares common stock its IPO price $ per share, including , shares purchased the Company. This reduced the Company\' ownership percentage % after the IPO. connection with this transaction, the Company recorded contribution additional paid- capital $ million, representing the difference between the carrying value the Company\' investment and the proportionate underlying net book value drugstore com after the IPO. December , , drugstore com was the only publicly held equity-method investee the Company. The market value the Company\' drugstore com common stock was $ million December , . December , , "Other investments" includes $ million investments accounted for under the cost method and $ million cost method investments securities with ready markets recorded fair value pursuant SFAS . . The cost such noncurrent available-for-sale equity securities December , was $ million. Gross unrealized gains were $ million and gross unrealized losses were $ million December , . NOTE -- LONG-TERM DEBT Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , the Company completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the Convertible Subordinated Notes). The Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into the Company\' common stock the holders\' option conversion price $ per share, subject adjustment certain events. Interest the Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year, and commenced August , . The Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness defined the indenture governing the Convertible Subordinated Notes (the Convertible Subordinated Notes Indenture). Subject certain conditions, the Convertible Subordinated Notes may redeemed the option the Company prior February , , whole part, the redemption price $ , per note, plus accrued and unpaid interest, the closing price for the Company\' common stock has exceeded % the conversion price for least trading days within period consecutive AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) trading days ending the trading day prior the date mailing the notice redemption. Upon any redemption made prior February , , the Company will also make additional cash payment with respect the Convertible Subordinated Notes called for redemption amount equal $ per $ , note redeemed, less the amount any interest actually paid such Convertible Subordinated Notes prior the call for redemption. any time and after February , , the Company may redeem the notes, whole part, the redemption prices set forth the Convertible Subordinated Notes Indenture. Upon the occurrence "fundamental change" ( defined the Convertible Subordinated Notes Indenture) prior the maturity the Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof shall have the right require Amazon com redeem all any part such holder\' Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. The fair value the Convertible Subordinated Notes December , was $ , , , . Senior Discount Notes May , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds % Senior Discount Notes due May , (the Senior Discount Notes). Pursuant registration statement Form - September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (the Exchange Notes), which are registered under the Securities Act , amended, for all outstanding Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout these notes consolidated financial statements interchangeably with the Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the original Senior Discount Notes (the Indenture). The Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. During , the Company repurchased $ million (principal amount) the Senior Discount Notes, representing accreted value $ million. The Company recorded immaterial loss extinguishment this debt. December , , the remaining principal amount outstanding was $ million. The Senior Discount Notes are senior unsecured indebtedness the Company ranking pari passu with the Company\' existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness and senior right payment all subordinated indebtedness the Company. The Senior Discount Notes are effectively subordinated all secured indebtedness and all existing and future liabilities the Company\' subsidiaries. The Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries ( defined the Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all financial covenants December , and . The fair value the outstanding Senior Discount Notes December , was $ million. December , , the carrying amount the Senior Discount Notes approximated fair value. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Leases and Marketing Agreements The Company currently leases office and distribution center facilities and fixed assets under noncancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for , and was $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. The Company has also entered into certain marketing agreements, which include fixed fees through . The costs associated with these agreements are recognized systematic basis over the term the related agreements services are received. Future minimum commitments are follows: OPERATING LEASES AND CAPITAL MARKETING LEASES AGREEMENTS ------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) YEAR ENDING DECEMBER , ............................................ $ , $ , ............................................ , , ............................................ , , ............................................ , ............................................ -- Thereafter........................................... -- -- ------- -------- Total minimum lease payments......................... $ , $ , ======== Less imputed interest................................ , ------- Present value net minimum lease payments.......... , Less current portion............................ , ------- Long-term capital lease obligation................... $ , ======= Legal Proceedings Subsequent December , , certain federal class action lawsuits were filed against the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Alexa. The lawsuits allege that Alexa tracking and storage Internet Web usage paths violates federal and state statutes prohibiting computer fraud, unfair competition, and unauthorized interception private electronic communications, well common law proscriptions against trespass and invasion privacy. The complaints seek actual, statutory, and punitive damages, well restitution, behalf all users Alexa Web navigation service, well injunctive relief prohibiting Alexa from tracking and storing such information disclosing third parties. Although the Company disputes the allegations wrongdoing these complaints, there can assurance that the Company will prevail these lawsuits. addition, the Federal Trade Commission has requested information and documents regarding Alexa practices and has opened formal investigative file connection with its inquiry. The Company cooperating voluntarily with the Federal Trade Commission\' investigation. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect the Company\' business, future results operations cash flows particular period. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition operating results. Letters Credit The Company contingently liable under unused letters credit the amount $ million December , . NOTE -- STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Preferred Stock June , the Company issued , shares Series convertible preferred stock price $ per share. January and February , the Company sold additional , shares Series preferred stock $ per share. The preferred stock was convertible into common stock the option the holder, any time, effective rate shares common stock for one share preferred stock. the closing the Company\' initial public offering, all the preferred stock outstanding was converted into aggregate , , shares common stock. Common Stock April , , the Company effected -for- common stock split. May , , the Company completed initial public offering million shares its common stock. Net proceeds the Company aggregated $ million. June , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend stockholders record May , . January , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend the stockholders record December , . September , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend stockholders record August , . Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restated reflect these stock splits. Stock Option Plans The Company\' stock option plans consist the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, the Stock Option Plan and the Stock Option Plan. Shares reserved under the Plans consist million shares the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, million shares the Stock Option Plan and million shares the Stock Option Plan. Any shares common stock available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan that are not issued under that plan may added the aggregate number shares available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan. connection with certain acquisitions and , the Company assumed outstanding options purchase common stock originally issued under the acquired companies\' stock option plans. The Company\' stock options plans well the assumed stock option plans are hereby collectively referred the "Plans." Generally, the Company\' Board Directors grants options exercise price not less than the fair market value the Company\' common stock the date grant. Each outstanding option granted prior December , has term five years from the date vesting. Generally, outstanding options granted subsequent December , have term years from the date grant; however, certain nonqualified stock options were granted with terms and years. Subject Internal Revenue Service limitations, options granted under the Plans prior April and granted under certain assumed plans generally become exercisable immediately. Options granted under the Plans since April generally vest and become exercisable accordance with the following vesting schedule: % after year one, % after year two and % the end each quarter for years three through five. Shares issued upon exercise options that are unvested are restricted and subject repurchase the Company the exercise price upon AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) termination employment services and such restrictions lapse over the original vesting schedule. December , , approximately million shares restricted common stock were subject repurchase. Stock Option Activity The following table summarizes the Company\' stock option activity: NUMBER WEIGHTED AVERAGE SHARES EXERCISE PRICE -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) Balance January , ........................... , $ Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------- Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------- Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------- Balance December , ......................... , $ ======= December , , million shares common stock were available for future grant under the Plans. The following table summarizes information about options outstanding and exercisable December , : SHARES UNDERLYING OPTIONS OUTSTANDING SHARES UNDERLYING --------------------------------------------- OPTIONS EXERCISABLE WEIGHTED ------------------------------- SHARES AVERAGE SHARES UNDERLYING REMAINING WEIGHTED UNDERLYING WEIGHTED RANGE OPTIONS CONTRACTUAL AVERAGE OPTIONS AVERAGE EXERCISE PRICES OUTSTANDING LIFE EXERCISE PRICE EXERCISABLE EXERCISE PRICE --------------- -------------- ----------- -------------- -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) ( THOUSANDS) $ - $. , years $ , $ - , years , - , years , - , years - , years - , years - , years - , years - , years - years ------ ----- $ - $ , years $ , $ ====== ===== AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Deferred Compensation The Company recorded aggregate deferred compensation $ million, $ million, and $ million , and , respectively. , deferred compensation was recorded connection with acquisitions made the Company which restricted Company stock was issued employees acquired companies. Such stock considered compensation for services provided employees, and the related expense will recognized over the term the services provided, which generally four years. The amounts recorded and represent the difference between the grant price and the deemed fair value the Company\' common stock for shares subject options granted and . Shares underlying options granted below fair market value and the associated weighted average exercise price were , , and $ , and million and $ during the years ended December , and , respectively. The amortization deferred compensation charged operations over the vesting period the options, which typically five years. Total amortization expense recognized , and related deferred compensation was $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Pro Forma Disclosure The Company follows the intrinsic value method accounting for its stock options. Had compensation cost been recognized based the fair value the date grant for options granted , and , the pro forma amounts the Company\' net loss and net loss per share for the years ended December , , and would have been follows: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------------------------- ------------ ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported......................... $ ( , ) $( , ) $( , ) Net loss -- pro forma........................... ( , , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- reported...................................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- pro forma... ( ) ( ) ( ) The fair value for each option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option pricing model, assuming expected dividends and the following weighted average assumptions: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ---------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ Average risk-free interest rates................... % % % Average expected life ( years)................... Volatility( )...................................... % % % - --------------- ( ) Options granted prior the Company\' initial public offering and PlanetAll prior its merger with the Company were valued using the minimum value method and therefore volatility was not applicable. The weighted average fair value options granted during , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively, for options granted with exercise prices the current fair value the underlying stock. During and , some options were granted with exercise prices that were below the current fair value the underlying stock. The weighted average fair value options granted with exercise prices below the current fair value the underlying stock during and was $ and $ , respectively. Compensation expense that recognized providing pro forma disclosures might not representative the effects pro forma earnings for future years because SFAS . does not apply stock option grants made prior . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance December , , common stock reserved for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock options............................................... , Shares issuable upon conversion Convertible Subordinated Notes..................................................... , Shares issuable associated with acquisitions................ ------- Total.................................................. , ======= NOTE -- EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE The following represents the calculations for net loss per share: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , ------------------------------------- ---------- ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported.................................. $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ========= ========= ======== Weighted average shares outstanding...................... , , , Pro forma adjustment for preferred stock................. -- -- , Weighted average common shares issued subject repurchase agreements.................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) --------- --------- -------- Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share.................................................. , , , ========= ========= ======== Basic and diluted loss per share......................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ========= ======== All the Company\' stock options (see Note ) are excluded from diluted loss per share since their effect antidilutive. NOTE -- STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION Stock-based compensation comprised the portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure key employees, which must classified compensation expense rather than component purchase price under generally accepted accounting principles. Stock-based compensation also includes stock-based charges such option-related deferred compensation recorded the Company\' initial public offering, well certain other compensation and severance arrangements. The following table shows the amounts stock-based compensation that would have been recorded under the following income statement categories had stock-based compensation not been separately stated the Consolidated Statements Operations: FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------- -------- ------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Marketing and sales......................... $ , $ , $ Technology and content...................... , General and administrative.................. , ------- ------ ------ $ , $ , $ , ======= ====== ====== NOTE -- INCOME TAXES The Company did not provide any current deferred federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because has experienced operating losses since inception. The AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Company has provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. December , , the Company had net operating loss approximately $ billion related federal, foreign and state jurisdictions. Utilization net operating loss, which begin expire various times starting , may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. the extent that net operating losses, when realized, relate stock option deductions approximately $ million, the resulting benefits will credited stockholders\' equity. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets are approximately follows: DECEMBER , --------------------- --------- -------- ( THOUSANDS) Net operating loss.................................... $ , $ , Depreciation and amortization......................... ( ) , Accrued expenses and valuation allowances............. , -- Other................................................. , , --------- -------- Total deferred tax assets...................... , , Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets........... ( , ) ( , ) --------- -------- Net deferred tax assets............................... $ -- $ -- ========= ======== NOTE -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN The Company has ( ) savings plan covering substantially all its employees. Eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. The Company matches employees\' contributions the discretion the Company\' Board Directors. date, the Company has not matched employee contributions the ( ) savings plan. NOTE -- SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company identifies operating segments based product line information, considering line maturity, within the United States and separately identifies its international operations operating segment. The financial results the Company\' operating segments are reported the Company\' Chief Operating Decision Maker the following groupings: Books; Music; DVD video; International; and Early-Stage Businesses and Other. The results for Books, Music and DVD video have been aggregated into one reportable segment due the similarity their economic characteristics. The measure profit loss used for each reportable segment income (loss) from operations before other operating expenses, including stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and merger, acquisition and investment-related costs. Assets are not allocated operating segments for reporting the Company\' Chief Operating Decision Maker and there are intersegment revenues transactions between reportable segments. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income follows: BOOKS, EARLY-STAGE MUSIC AND BUSINESSES DVD VIDEO INTERNATIONAL AND OTHER CONSOLIDATED ---------- ------------- ----------- ------------ ( THOUSANDS) : Revenues from external customers......... $ , , $ , $ , $ , , Gross profit (loss)...................... , , ( , ) , Segment loss............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other operating expenses................. -- -- -- ( , ) Net interest expense and other........... -- -- -- ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees............................. -- -- -- ( , ) ---------- Net loss................................. -- -- -- ( , ) ========== : Revenues from external customers......... , , -- , Gross profit............................. , , -- , Segment loss............................. ( , ) ( , ) -- ( , ) Other operating expenses................. -- -- -- ( , ) Interest expense, net.................... -- -- -- ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees............................. -- -- -- ( , ) ---------- Net loss................................. -- -- -- ( , ) ========== : Revenues from external customers......... , -- -- , Gross profit............................. , -- -- , Segment loss............................. ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Other operating expenses................. ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Interest income, net..................... , -- -- , Equity losses equity-method investees............................. -- -- -- -- ---------- ---------- Net loss................................. $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ========== ========== Sales customers outside the represented approximately %, % and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. individual foreign country geographical area customer accounted for more than % net sales any the periods presented. There were transfers between geographic areas during the years ended December , , . Long-lived assets, which are comprised primarily fixed assets, held foreign countries totaled $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Depreciation expense for the Books, Music and DVD video segment was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Depreciation expense for the International segment was $ million and $ million and , respectively. Depreciation expense for the Early-Stage Business and other segment was $ million . NOTE -- SUBSEQUENT EVENTS February , , the Company completed offering E690, , ($ , , February , ) % Convertible Subordinated Notes due , also known PEACS. The PEACS are convertible into the Company\' common stock initial conversion price E104 per share. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Interest the PEACS payable annually arrears February each year, commencing February , . The PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated all the Company\' existing and future senior indebtedness. The PEACS rank equally with the Convertible Subordinated Notes. The conversion price will reset February , and February , the lesser ( ) the then effective conversion price and ( ) the euro equivalent average the daily closing prices the Company\' common stock for the consecutive trading days immediately preceding such date. However, event will the conversion price reset lower than E84 per share. The exchange ratio between the dollar and the euro not fixed the indenture governing the PEACS, and, therefore, fluctuations that ratio may impact whether the conversion price will reset. Subject certain conditions, the PEACS may redeemed the Company\' option prior February , , whole part, the redemption price , per note, plus accrued and unpaid interest, the closing price for the Company\' common stock has exceeded % the initial conversion price for least trading days within period consecutive trading days ending the trading day prior the date mailing the notice redemption. Upon any redemption made prior February , , the Company will make additional cash payment with respect the PEACS called for redemption amount equal E206 per , note redeemed, less the amount any interest actually paid such PEACS prior the call for redemption. any time and after February , , the Company may redeem the notes, whole part, their principal amount plus any accrued but unpaid interest. Upon the occurrence "fundamental change" ( defined the indenture governing the PEACS) prior the maturity the notes, each holder thereof shall have the right require the Company redeem all any part such holder\' PEACS price % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE -- QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited Statement Operations information for each quarter , and . The Company believes that the following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , ----------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER --------- --------- --------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales.................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit................................. , , , , Net loss..................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share ( )......... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share..................... , , , , YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share................ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share................ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , - --------------- ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. ITEM CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. PART III ITEM DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information regarding our executive officers required Part III, Item , set forth Item Part herein under the caption "Executive Officers and Directors." Information required Part III, Item , regarding our directors included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. Information relating compliance with Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, set forth the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information required Part III, Item , included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT Information required Part III, Item , included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information regarding certain our relationships and related transactions included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. PART ITEM EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) LIST DOCUMENTS FILED PART THIS REPORT: ( ) INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) INDEX FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES: Schedule Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) INDEX EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- Agreement and Plan Merger dated April , and among Amazon com, Inc., Acquisition, Inc., Alexa Internet and Brewster Kahle (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated June , ) Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference Amendment . the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Registration Rights Agreement entered into May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Note Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated Reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ) + Accept com Financial Services Corporation Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ) + Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Investor Rights Agreement, dated June , , and among the Company, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VIII, KPCB Information Sciences Zaibatsu Fund and Jeffrey . Bezos (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Offer Letter Employment Joseph Galli, . dated June , , amended and restated September , . + Offer Letter Employment Warren . Jenson dated September , , amended and restated September , . + Offer Letter Employment Jeff Wilke, dated September , . + Offer Letter Employment Richard Dalzell, dated August , . Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. List Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Financial Data Schedule. - --------------- + Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) REPORTS FORM - : October , , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing its financial results for the third quarter . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this Report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, March , . AMAZON COM, INC. : / / JEFFREY . BEZOS --------------------------------------- Jeffrey . Bezos Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this Report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities indicated March , . / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Chairman the Board and Chief Executive - -------------------------------------------- Officer (Principal Executive Officer) Jeffrey . Bezos / / JOSEPH GALLI, . President, Chief Operating Officer and - -------------------------------------------- Director Joseph Galli, . / / WARREN . JENSON Senior Vice President, Chief Financial - -------------------------------------------- Officer and Chief Accounting Officer Warren . Jenson (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) / / TOM . ALBERG Director - -------------------------------------------- Tom . Alberg / / SCOTT . COOK Director - -------------------------------------------- Scott . Cook / / . JOHN DOERR Director - -------------------------------------------- . John Doerr / / PATRICIA . STONESIFER Director - -------------------------------------------- Patricia . Stonesifer AMAZON COM, INC. SCHEDULE -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS INVENTORY VALUATION ALLOWANCE CHARGED/ BALANCE (CREDITED) INVENTORY BALANCE BEGINNING COSTS DISPOSED END YEAR ENDED PERIOD AND EXPENSES WRITTEN OFF PERIOD ---------- ---------- ------------------- ------------ ---------- ( THOUSANDS) December , ............... $ , $ , $( , ) $ , ====== ======= ======== ======= December , ............... $ $ , $ ( ) $ , ====== ======= ======== ======= December , ............... $ -- $ $ -- $ ====== ======= ======== ======= ', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}