{'item 1. ': 'Business.................................................... Item . Properties.................................................. Item . Legal Proceedings........................................... Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders......... PART Item . Market for the Registrant\' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters......................................... Item . Selected Consolidated Financial Data........................ Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations................................... Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk... Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data................. Item . Changes and Disagreements With Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure.................................... PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant.......... Item . Executive Compensation...................................... Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.................................................. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.............. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ......................................................... Signatures............................................................ PART ITEM . BUSINESS This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based current expectations, estimates and projections about the Company\' industry, management\' beliefs and certain assumptions made management. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Forward-Looking Statements." GENERAL Amazon com, Inc. ("Amazon com" the "Company"), the Internet\' number one book, music and video retailer, opened its virtual doors the Web July . Amazon com, one the most widely known, used and cited commerce sites the Web, offers more than million book, music , video, DVD, computer game and other titles. The Company offers its customers superior shopping experience providing value and high level customer service. Amazon com proven technology leader; has developed electronic commerce innovations such -Click ordering, personalized shopping services and easy- -use search and browse features. Shopping Amazon com fast and safe, incorporating simple ordering system, secure credit card transactions, -mail communication with customers and direct shipping worldwide. The Internet increasingly significant global medium for online commerce. According Forrester Research, the total value goods and services purchased over the Web was $ billion and expected increase $ trillion . Amazon com believes well positioned capitalize this growth. According Media Metrix, approximately % Web users visited Amazon com\' stores December . Amazon com, Amazon , Amazon , Internet Movie Database, Earth\' Biggest Bookstore and -Click are either registered trademarks trademarks Amazon com its affiliates. All other names mentioned herein may trademarks their respective owners. Information contained the Company\' Web sites not deemed part this Annual Report Form - . used herein, "titles" offered the Company means the items offered the Company\' catalogs and includes books, CDs, videotapes, audiotapes and other products. Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated Delaware. The Company\' principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. Amazon com completed its initial public offering May and its common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." BUSINESS STRATEGY The Company\' objective become the best place buy, find and discover any product service available online. Amazon com will continue enhance and broaden its brand, customer base and electronic commerce expertise with the goal creating customers\' preferred online shopping destination, the United States and around the world. AMAZON COM WEB SITES The Company believes that the sale books, music and other products and services over the Web can offer attractive benefits customers, including greater selection, convenience, ease- -use, competitive pricing and personalization. Customers entering Amazon com Web sites can, addition ordering books and other products, purchase gift certificates, conduct targeted searches, browse highlighted selections, view bestseller lists and other features, read and post reviews, register for personalized services, participate promotions and check order status. The key components Amazon com\' offerings include browsing, searching, reviews and content, recommendations and personalization, -Click technology, secure credit card payment and availability and fulfillment. The Company\' Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat purchases providing inviting experience that encourages customers return frequently and interact with other customers. Browsing. The Amazon com sites offer visitors variety highlighted subject areas, styles and special features arranged simple, easy- -use fashion intended enhance product search and selection. addition, the Web sites present variety products and services and topical information. enhance the customers\' shopping experience and increase sales, the Company features variety products and services rotating basis throughout the stores. Searching. primary feature Amazon com Web sites its interactive, searchable catalogs more than million books, music , video, DVD, computer game and other titles. The Company provides selection search tools find books, music, video and other products based keyword, title, subject, author, artist, musical instrument, label, actor, director, publication date ISBN. Customers can also use more complex and precise search tools such Boolean search queries. The Company licenses some its catalog and other information from third parties. Reviews and Content. The Amazon com stores offer numerous forms content enhance the customer\' shopping experience and encourage purchases. Various types content are available for particular titles, including cover art, synopses, annotations, reviews editorial staff and other customers, and interviews authors and artists. Recommendations and Personalization. Amazon com personalizes its product and service offerings. These features include greeting customers name, instant and personalized recommendations, bestseller and chart-topper listings, personal notification services, purchase pattern filtering and number other related features. The Company believes that personalization customer\' shopping experience the Company\' Web sites important element the value proposition offers customers and intends continue enhance its personalized services. -Click Technology. Amazon com provides customers with streamlined ordering process using -Click technology. customer has previously activated -Click functionality, customer can place order clicking one button without having fill out order form. The customer\' shipping and billing information automatically referenced the Company\' secure server. Secure Credit Card Payment. Amazon com utilizes secure server software for secure commerce transactions. encrypts all the customer\' personal information, including credit card number, name and address, that cannot read the information travels over the Internet. Availability and Fulfillment. Many the Company\' products are available for shipment within hours, others are available within two three days and the remainder are generally available within four six weeks, although some products may not available all. Out- -print books generally are available one three months, although some books may not available all. Customers can select from variety delivery options, including overnight and various international shipping options, well gift-wrapping services. The Company uses -mail notify customers order status under various conditions and provides links shipping carriers that the customers can track their shipments. The Company seeks provide rapid and reliable fulfillment customer orders and continue improve its speed availability and fulfillment. Return Policy. Within days following the customer\' receipt their order, Amazon com will provide full refund for any book its original condition, any Amazon com recommended book any condition, any unopened music , DVD, VHS tape software, and any other merchandise item new condition, with its original packaging and accessories. PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION Products. The Company has offered books for sale since July . The Company expanded its product offerings beyond books with the June launch its music store. the third quarter , its first full quarter online music sales, Amazon com became the number one online music seller. November , Amazon com launched its video store and enhanced holiday gift store, offering variety products, including selected personal electronics and toy products. the fourth quarter , its first quarter online video sales, Amazon com became the number one online video seller. The Company plans continue expand its product offerings. Services. Amazon com intends broaden the scope its business with the goal becoming customers\' preferred destination for online shopping. August , Amazon com merged with Sage Enterprises, Inc. ("PlanetAll"), Web-based address book, calendar and reminder service, and Junglee Corp. ("Junglee"), leading provider Web-based virtual database technology, which allows visitors access variety products sold other merchants. The Company plans continue expand its service offerings. Geographic Expansion. April , Amazon com acquired three Internet companies the United Kingdom and Germany. October , the Company -launched two these businesses under the Amazon brand. The Company incorporated Amazon com\' technology and look-and-feel into the European sites, www amazon and www amazon . During the fourth quarter , combined sales the European sites significantly increased over the third quarter, establishing Amazon com the number one online bookseller these markets. For discussion segment and geographic information, see Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. MARKETING AND PROMOTION Amazon com\' marketing strategy designed strengthen the Amazon brand name, increase customer traffic the Amazon com Web sites, build customer loyalty, encourage repeat purchases and develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities. Amazon com creatively applies technology deliver personalized programs and services, well flexible merchandising. The Company employs variety media, business development and promotional methods achieve these goals. The Company also benefits from public relations activities well online and traditional advertising, including radio, television and print media. Associates Program. The Company extends its market presence through its Associates Program, which enables associated Web sites make products available their audiences with order fulfillment Amazon com. Approximately , Web sites have enrolled the Associates Program. Amazon com associates include Yahoo! Inc. ("Yahoo!"), American Online, Inc. ("AOL"), Excite, Inc., Netscape Communications Corporation, GeoCities, Microsoft Corporation and AltaVista Company. Advantage for Books and Music. The Advantage program designed increase the visibility and sales titles from independent publishers, authors, artists and labels. This free program provides the tools and framework ensure their books and music appear more often, more prominently, and with -hour availability throughout Amazon com\' catalogs book, music and other titles. CUSTOMER SERVICE The Company believes that its ability establish and maintain long-term relationships with its customers and encourage repeat visits and purchases depends, part, the strength its customer support and service operations and staff. Furthermore, the Company seeks achieve frequent communication with and feedback from its customers continually improve the Amazon com stores and services. The Company offers number -mail addresses enable customers request information and encourage feedback and suggestions. Users can also contact customer service representatives via telephone hours day, days week. The Company has automated certain the tools used its customer support and service staff and has plans for further enhancements. WAREHOUSING, FULFILLMENT AND DISTRIBUTION The Company sources products from network distributors, publishers, labels and manufacturers. Although the Company carries its own inventory (some which purchased directly from manufacturers), also relies rapid fulfillment from major distributors and wholesalers that carry broad selection titles. The Company purchases majority its products from Ingram Book Group ("Ingram"), Baker & Taylor, Inc. (" & ") and Valley Media, Inc. ("Valley Media"). Ingram the Company\' single largest supplier and accounted for approximately % and approximately % the Company\' inventory purchases and , respectively. The Company utilizes automated interfaces for sorting and organizing its orders enable achieve rapid and economic purchase and delivery terms. For orders that cannot filled from the Company\' inventory, the Company\' proprietary software selects the orders that can filled via electronic interfaces with vendors and forwards the remaining orders its special orders group. Under the Company\' arrangements with distributors, electronically ordered books often are shipped the Company the distributor within hours receipt order from Amazon com. The Company has developed customized information systems and trained dedicated ordering personnel who specialize sourcing out- -print books and other hard- -find products. The Company intends continue developing its distribution infrastructure increase efficiency and support greater customer demand. For example, December , Amazon com leased highly mechanized distribution facility Fernley, Nevada. The new facility, which expected begin operations , should reduce standard shipping times key markets the western United States. The facility will allow the Company increase significantly the number products maintained inventory for rapid shipment customers. TECHNOLOGY The Company has implemented numerous site management, search, customer interaction, recommendation, transaction-processing and fulfillment services and systems using combination its own proprietary technologies and commercially available, licensed technologies. The Company\' current strategy focus its development efforts creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique its business and license acquire commercially developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. The Company uses set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory customer orders and ensuring proper shipment products customers based various ordering criteria. The Company\' transaction- processing systems handle millions items, number different availability statuses, gift-wrapping requests and multiple shipment methods and allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing and charging customer credit cards. Amazon com Web sites also incorporate variety search and database tools. Systems administrators and network managers monitor and operate the Company\' Web sites, network operations and transaction-processing systems. The continued uninterrupted operation the Company\' Web sites and transaction-processing systems essential its business and the job the site operations staff ensure their reliability. The Company uses the services five Internet service providers obtain connectivity the Internet, both domestically and internationally, over multiple dedicated lines. COMPETITION The online commerce market, particularly over the Web, new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music and video industries are intensely competitive. The Company\' current potential competitors include ( ) online booksellers and vendors other products such CDs, videotapes and DVDs, ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines such Yahoo! and AOL, that are involved online commerce either directly collaboration with other retailers, ( ) publishers, distributors and retail vendors books, music, video and other products, including Barnes & Noble, Inc. ("Barnes & Noble"), Bertelsmann ("Bertelsmann") and other large specialty booksellers and media corporations, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and ( ) traditional retailers who currently sell, who may sell, products services through the Internet. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors its market are brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other site content, and reliability and speed fulfillment. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. For example, late , ( ) Bertelsmann announced that purchased % interest Barnes & Noble\' online venture, barnesandnoble com inc., and intends launch online stores several countries, ( ) Barnes & Noble announced its pending acquisition Ingram, currently the Company\' largest single supplier, and ( ) online music retailers CDnow, Inc. and N2K Inc. announced merger. The Company may not able compete successfully against these and future competitors. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company regards its patents, copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical its success, and relies trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with its employees, customers, partners and others protect its proprietary rights. The Company has applied for the registration certain its trademarks and service marks the United States and internationally. addition, the Company has filed . and international patent applications covering certain its proprietary technology. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which the Company\' products and services are made available online. The Company has licensed the past, and expects that may license the future, certain its proprietary rights, such trademarks, technology copyrighted material, third parties. EMPLOYEES December , , the Company employed approximately , employees. The Company also employs independent contractors. None the Company\' employees are represented labor union, and the Company considers its employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel the Company\' industry intense, particularly for software development and other technical staff. The Company believes that its future success will depend part its continued ability attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. have limited operating history. incorporated July and began offering products for sale our Web site July . Accordingly, have relatively short operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. You should consider our prospects light the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered early stage online commerce companies. early-stage online commerce company, have evolving and unpredictable business model, face intense competition, must effectively manage our growth and must respond quickly rapid changes customer demands and industry standards. may not succeed addressing these challenges and risks. have accumulated deficit and anticipate further losses. have incurred significant losses since began doing business. December , , had accumulated deficit $ million. succeed must invest heavily marketing and promotion and developing our product, technology and operating infrastructure. addition, the expenses associated with our recent acquisitions and interest expense related the February issuance our % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the "Convertible Notes") and the May issuance our % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Senior Discount Notes") will adversely affect our operating results. Our aggressive pricing programs have resulted relatively low product gross margins, need generate and sustain substantially higher revenues order become profitable. Although our revenues have grown, cannot sustain our current rate growth. Our percentage growth rate will decrease the future. For these reasons believe that will continue incur substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future, and these losses may significantly higher than our current losses. Unpredictability future revenues; potential fluctuations quarterly operating results; seasonality. Due our limited operating history and the unpredictability our industry, cannot accurately forecast our revenues. base our current and future expense levels our investment plans and estimates future revenues. Our expenses are large extent fixed. may not able adjust our spending quickly our revenues fall short our expectations. Further, may make pricing, purchasing, service, marketing, acquisition financing decisions that could adversely affect our business results. Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate for many reasons, including: - our ability retain existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers\' demand, - our ability acquire merchandise, manage our inventory and fulfill orders, - changes gross margins our current and future products, services and markets, - introduction our new sites, services and products those competitors, - changes usage the Internet and online services and consumer acceptance the Internet and online commerce, - timing upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure, - the level traffic our Web sites, - the effects acquisitions and other business combinations, and related integration, - technical difficulties, system downtime Internet brownouts, - introductions popular books, music selections and other products services, - our level merchandise returns, and - disruptions service common shipping carriers due strikes otherwise. Both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality may affect our business. Internet usage generally declines during the summer. Sales the traditional retail book and music industries usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. For those reasons, you should not rely period- -period comparisons our financial results forecast our future performance. Our future operating results may fall below the expectations securities analysts investors, which would likely cause the trading price our common stock decline. Intense competition. The online commerce market new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music and video industries are intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include ( ) online booksellers and vendors other products such CDs, videotapes and DVDs, ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines, such Yahoo! and AOL, that are involved online commerce either directly collaboration with other retailers, ( ) publishers, distributors and retail vendors books, music, video and other products, including Barnes & Noble, Bertelsmann and other large specialty booksellers and media corporations, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and ( ) traditional retailers who currently sell, who may sell, products services through the Internet. believe that the principal competitive factors our market are brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other site content, and reliability and speed fulfillment. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing inventory policies. They also can devote more resources technology development and marketing than can. also expect experience increased competition from online commerce sites that provide goods and services near cost, relying advertising revenues achieve profitability. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. For example, late , ( ) Bertelsmann announced that purchased % interest Barnes & Noble\' online venture, barnesandnoble com inc., and intends launch online stores several countries, ( ) Barnes & Noble announced its pending acquisition Ingram, currently our largest single supplier, and ( ) online music retailers CDnow, Inc. and N2K Inc. announced merger. may not able compete successfully against these and future competitors. Competition the Internet and online commerce markets probably will intensify. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may use their market power expand into the markets which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies may increase the competitive pressures online retailers. For example, "shopping agent" technologies permit customers quickly compare our prices with those our competitors. This increased competition may reduce our operating margins, diminish our market share impair the value our brand. Risks system interruption. Customers\' access our Web sites directly affects the volume orders fulfill and thus affects our revenues. experience occasional system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. These interruptions will continue. need add additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and network infrastructure accommodate increased traffic our Web sites and increased sales volume. Without these upgrades, face additional system interruptions, slower response times, diminished customer service, impaired quality and speed order fulfillment, and delays our financial reporting. cannot accurately project the rate timing any increases traffic sales volume our Web sites and, therefore, the integration and timing these upgrades are uncertain. maintain substantially all our computer and communications hardware single leased facility Seattle, Washington. Our systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. not have backup systems formal disaster recovery plan and may not have sufficient business interruption insurance compensate for losses from major interruption. Computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins and similar disruptions could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss critical data and could prevent from providing services and accepting and fulfilling customer orders. may have difficulty managing our growth. have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will further expand our operations address potential growth our product and service offerings and customer base. will expand our product and service offerings and our international operations and will pursue other market opportunities. need significantly expand our distribution center network and improve our transaction-processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. This expansion will continue place significant strain our management, operational facilities and financial resources. Because difficult predict sales increases, and lead times for developing distribution centers are long, may over-expand our facilities, which may result excess inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. also need expand, train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel successfully identify, manage and exploit market opportunities, which may limit our growth. Risk entering new business areas. intend expand our operations promoting new complementary products, services sales formats and expanding our product service offerings. This will require significant additional expense and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. cannot expect benefit these new markets from the first- -market advantage that experienced the online book market. Our gross margins these new business areas may lower than our existing business activities. may not able expand our operations cost-effective timely manner. Any new business that our customers not receive favorably could damage our reputation and the Amazon brand. Risk international expansion. plan expand our presence foreign markets. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing and distributing products services for these markets and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. will costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally, and develop localized Web sites and stores and other systems. may not succeed our efforts these countries. revenues from international activities not offset the expense establishing and maintaining foreign operations, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will suffer. the international online commerce market continues grow, competition this market will likely intensify. addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate Internet other online services such areas content, privacy, network security, encryption distribution. This may affect our ability conduct business internationally. Risks business combinations and strategic alliances. may expand our operations market presence entering into business combinations, investments, joint ventures other strategic alliances with other companies. These transactions create risks such : - difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel the combined companies, - disruption our ongoing business, - problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel, - expenses associated with amortization goodwill and other purchased intangible assets, - additional operating losses and expenses acquired businesses, and - impairment relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners. may not succeed addressing these risks. addition, the businesses acquired are incurring operating losses. Rapid technological change. Technology the online commerce industry changes rapidly. Customer functionality requirements and preferences also change. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology obsolete. succeed, must enhance Web site responsiveness, functionality and features, acquire and license leading technologies, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technology and respond technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices cost-effective and timely basis. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and industry standards. depend key personnel. depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board. not have long-term employment agreements with any our key personnel, and not have "key person" life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. rely small number suppliers. purchase majority our products from three major vendors, Ingram, & and Valley Media. late , Barnes & Noble, one our largest competitors, announced agreement purchase Ingram. Ingram our single largest supplier and supplied approximately % our inventory purchases and approximately % our inventory purchases . Although increased our direct purchasing from manufacturers during , continue purchase majority our products from these three suppliers. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. Our current vendors may stop selling merchandise acceptable terms. may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. are highly leveraged. have significant indebtedness. December , , were indebted under our Senior Discount Notes, capitalized lease obligations and other asset financing. With the sale the Convertible Notes February , incurred $ billion additional indebtedness. may incur substantial additional debt the future. Our indebtedness could: - make difficult make principal and interest payments the Senior Discount Notes and the Convertible Notes, - make difficult obtain necessary financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements other purposes, - limit our flexibility planning for, reacting , changes our business and competition, and - make more difficult for react the event economic downturn. may not able meet our debt service obligations. our cash flow inadequate meet our obligations, may face substantial liquidity problems. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with other covenants our indebtedness, will default. This would permit our creditors accelerate the maturity our indebtedness. Risks associated with domain names. hold rights various Web domain names, including "Amazon com," "Amazon " and "Amazon ." Governmental agencies typically regulate domain names. These regulations are subject change. may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Governmental regulation and legal uncertainties. this time, face general business regulations and laws regulations regarding taxation and access online commerce. For example, expanding our distribution center network may result additional sales and other tax obligations. Regulatory authorities may adopt specific laws and regulations governing the Internet online commerce. These regulations may cover taxation, user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution and characteristics and quality products and services. Changes consumer protection laws also may impose additional burdens companies conducting business online. These laws regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. Moreover, not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply the Internet and online commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. Risks uncertain protection intellectual property. Third parties that license our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patented technology copyrighted material, may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. addition, the steps take protect our proprietary rights may not adequate and third parties may infringe misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that infringed their proprietary rights. have been subject claims, and expect subject legal proceedings and claims, regarding alleged infringement and our licensees the trademarks and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, even not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Risks Year non-compliance. have developed plan modify our information technology recognize the year and have begun converting our critical data processing systems. have initiated formal communications with our significant suppliers and service providers determine the extent which our systems may vulnerable they fail address and correct their own Year issues. cannot guarantee that the systems suppliers other companies which rely will Year compliant. Their failure convert their systems could disrupt our systems. addition, the computer systems necessary maintain the viability the Internet any the Web sites that direct consumers our online stores may not Year compliant. Finally, computers used our customers access our online stores may not Year compliant, delaying our customers\' purchases our products. are the process developing formal contingency plan. cannot guarantee that our systems will Year compliant that the Year problem will not adversely affect our business, which includes limiting precluding customer purchases. Our stock price highly volatile. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. For example, during the -week period ended February , ( adjusted for our -for- split our common stock effected June , and -for- split our common stock effected January , ), the reported closing price the common stock the Nasdaq National Market was high $ and low $ per share. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : - quarterly variations operating results, - announcements innovations, - new products, services and strategic developments our competitors, - business combinations and investments our competitors, - changes our operating expense levels losses, - changes financial estimates and recommendations securities analysts, - performance other online commerce companies, and - news reports relating trends the Internet, book, music, video other product service industries. Any these events may cause our stock price fall, which may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. addition, the stock market general and the market prices for Internet-related companies particular have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated the operating performance such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price the common stock, regardless our operating performance. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS The following tables set forth certain information regarding the executive officers and Directors the Company February , : EXECUTIVE OFFICERS NAME AGE POSITION ---- --- -------- Jeffrey . Bezos........................... President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Joy . Covey............................... Chief Financial Officer and Vice President Finance and Administration Richard . Dalzell......................... Vice President and Chief Information Officer Sheldon . Kaphan.......................... Vice President and Chief Technology Officer John . Risher............................. Senior Vice President Product Development Kavitark . Shriram........................ Vice President Business Development Jimmy . Wright............................ Vice President and Chief Logistics Officer JEFFREY . BEZOS. . Bezos has been President and Chairman the Board the Company since founding , and Chief Executive Officer since May , and served Treasurer and Secretary from May March . From December June , . Bezos was employed . Shaw & ., Wall Street investment firm, becoming Senior Vice President . From April December , . Bezos was employed Bankers Trust Company, becoming Vice President February . . Bezos received his . Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Summa Cum Laude, from Princeton University. JOY . COVEY. . Covey joined the Company December Chief Financial Officer and Vice President Finance and Administration, and served Secretary from March February . . Covey also served Treasurer the Company from March February . From June February , . Covey served Vice President, Operations the Broadcast Division Avid Technology, Inc. ("Avid"), developer digital media systems, and from January June , . Covey served Vice President Business Development for Avid. From July January , . Covey served Chief Financial Officer Digidesign, Inc., developer random access digital audio systems and software. Prior that, she was associate Wasserstein Perella & ., and certified public accountant Ernst & Young LLP. . Covey received her . Business Administration, Summa Cum Laude, from California State University, Fresno, her ., With High Distinction, from Harvard Business School and her ., Magna Cum Laude, from Harvard Law School. She Certified Public Accountant and member the California State Bar. RICHARD . DALZELL. . Dalzell joined the Company August Vice President and Chief Information Officer. From February August , . Dalzell held several management positions within the Information Systems Division Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., including Vice President Information Systems from January August . From , . Dalzell acted the Business Development Manager for -Systems, Inc. Prior joining -Systems, Inc. served seven years the United States Army teleprocessing officer. . Dalzell received . Engineering from the United States Military Academy, West Point. SHELDON . KAPHAN. . Kaphan has served the Company\' Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since March . From October March , . Kaphan served Vice President Research and Development the Company. From October July , . Kaphan served senior engineer Kaleida Labs Inc., multimedia joint venture between Apple Computer Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. . Kaphan received his . Mathematics from the University California, Santa Cruz. JOHN . RISHER. . Risher joined the Company February Vice President Product Development. . Risher was promoted Senior Vice President Product Development November . From July February , . Risher held variety marketing and project management positions Microsoft Corporation, including Team Manager for Microsoft Access and Founder and Product Unit Manager for Investor, Microsoft\' Web site for personal investment. . Risher received his . Comparative Literature, Magna Cum Laude, from Princeton University and his . from Harvard Business School. KAVITARK . SHRIRAM. . Shriram joined the Company August and was named Vice President Business Development October . From May August , . Shriram served President and Chief Operating Officer Junglee Corp. From November July , . Shriram held several positions Netscape Communications Corporation, most recently Vice President OEM and WebSite Sales. From , . Shriram served director global channel sales Network Computing Devices, Inc. . Shriram holds . from the University Madras, India and . from the University Michigan. JIMMY . WRIGHT. . Wright joined the Company July Vice President and Chief Logistics Officer. From , . Wright held variety logistics management positions with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., most recently Vice President Distribution. Additionally, during , . Wright served managing partner Diversified Retail Solutions, ., retail consulting firm. From , . Wright held variety positions Fina Oil and Chemical Company, branch Petrofina . based Brussels, most recently General Manager Distribution. . Wright received his . personnel management from the University Texas. BOARD DIRECTORS NAME AGE ---- --- Jeffrey . Bezos........................... Chairman the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer the Company Tom . Alberg.............................. Principal Madrona Investment Group, . Scott . Cook.............................. Founder and Chairman the Executive Committee Intuit, Inc. . John Doerr.............................. General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Patricia . Stonesifer..................... Chairman the Gates Learning Foundation and Former Senior Vice President the Interactive Media Division Microsoft Corporation ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company\' principal office facilities located the United States currently total approximately , square feet and are located Seattle, Washington under leases that expire June through April . The Company also recently leased office building approximately , square feet Seattle, Washington under lease that expires . The Company will occupy the office building . The Company\' warehousing and fulfillment operations are housed approximately , -square-foot facility Seattle, Washington under lease that expires October , and approximately , -square-foot facility located New Castle, Delaware under lease that expires October . December , the Company leased approximately , -square-foot distribution facility Fernley, Nevada under lease that expires . The facility expected begin operations . The Company has additional properties Europe. The German subsidiary\' headquarters and distribution center, located Regensburg, Germany, total approximately , square feet, under leases that expire December and . The editorial and marketing offices Germany are approximately , square feet and are located Munich under lease that expires . The headquarter offices and distribution center the . subsidiary total approximately , square feet and are located Slough, England under lease that expires . The Company does not own any real estate December , . Additionally, the Company anticipates that will require additional office space within the next months. There can assurance that suitable additional space will available commercially reasonable terms. The Company intends establish one more additional distribution centers within the next months, which would require commit lease obligations, stock inventories, purchase fixed assets, hire and train employees and install leasehold improvements. addition, the Company has announced plans continue developing distribution infrastructure increase efficiency and support greater customer demand, well increase its inventory provide better availability customers and achieve purchasing efficiencies. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Intimate Bookshop. August , The Intimate Bookshop and Wallace Kuralt filed lawsuit the United States District Court for the Southern District New York against the Company, Barnes & Noble, Borders Group, Inc. and others alleging antitrust, unfair competition and related claims under the Robinson-Patman Act, the Clayton Act, the Donnelly Act and certain New York state statutes and common law. The complaint was thereafter amended drop the class action allegations and certain claims. claim for unfair competition was added. The plaintiffs requested the following relief: actual damages approximately $ million, treble damages, injunctive relief, punitive damages, pre- and postjudgment interest, attorneys\' fees and costs. Amazon com understands that the plaintiffs filed voluntary dismissal this action, with prejudice, March , . Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. October , Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Wal-Mart") filed lawsuit Bentonville, Arkansas against the Company and other defendants alleging actual and threatened misappropriation trade secrets and ancillary common-law claims. Wal-Mart subsequently requested temporary restraining order preventing the defendants from misappropriating Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets, from placing employees positions which they would "inevitably disclose" Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets and from soliciting, inducing recruiting Wal-Mart employees. January , Wal-Mart filed identical action Seattle, Washington, and the Arkansas court dismissed Wal-Mart\' action jurisdictional grounds before deciding the temporary restraining order. The dismissal pending appeal. Wal-Mart has advised the Company that will file preliminary injunction motion. addition injunctive relief, Wal-Mart has requested compensatory damages, pre- and postjudgment interest and attorneys\' fees and costs. The Company believes that Wal-Mart\' claims are without merit and intends vigorously defend against the plaintiffs\' claims. Amazon com has filed counterclaim based part unfair competition and intentional interference. Litigation inherently uncertain, and there can assurance that the Company will prevail the lawsuit. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted for vote stockholders the Company during the fourth quarter the year ended December , . PART ITEM . MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT\' COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Market Information The common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. HIGH LOW ------- ------ Year ended December , Second Quarter (from May )............................ $ $ Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... Year ended December , First Quarter........................................... Second Quarter.......................................... Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... The prices this table have been adjusted reflect the -for- stock split effected June , and the -for- stock split effected January , . Holders February , there were , stockholders record the common stock, although there are larger number beneficial owners. Dividends The Company has never declared paid cash dividends its common stock. The Company intends retain all future earnings finance future growth and, therefore, does not anticipate paying any cash dividends the foreseeable future. addition, the Company restricted from paying cash dividends under the Senior Discount Notes. Changes Securities None. Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. ITEM . SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and the information contained herein Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations." Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. PERIOD FROM JULY , YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , (INCEPTION) -------------------------------------------- DECEMBER , --------- -------- -------- ------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) STATEMENT OPERATIONS DATA ( ): Net sales.................................. $ , $ , $ , $ $ -- Cost sales.............................. , , , -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Gross profit............................... , , , -- Operating expenses: Marketing and sales...................... , , , -- Product development...................... , , , General and administrative............... , , , Merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles............ , -- -- -- -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Total operating expenses.......... , , , --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Loss from operations....................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( ) Interest income............................ , , -- Interest expense........................... ( , ) ( ) ( ) -- -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Net interest income (expense)..... ( , ) , -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Net loss................................... $( , ) $( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======== ======= ======= Basic and diluted loss per share ( )....... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======== ======= ======= Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share ( )............... , , , , , ========= ======== ======== ======= ======= DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------------------------- --------- -------- -------- ------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) BALANCE SHEET DATA ( ): Cash....................................... $ , $ , $ $ $ Marketable securities...................... , , , -- Working capital (deficiency)............... , , , ( ) Total assets............................... , , , , Long-term debt............................. , , -- -- -- Stockholders\' equity....................... , , , - --------------- ( ) Reflects restatement for pooling interests. See Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ( ) For further discussion loss per share see Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM . MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . This Act provides "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements encourage companies provide prospective information about themselves long they identify these statements forward looking and provide meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results differ from the projected results. All statements other than statements historical fact made this Annual Report Form - are forward looking. particular, the statements herein regarding industry prospects and future results operations financial position are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\' current expectations and are inherently uncertain. The Company\' actual results may differ significantly from management\' expectations. The following discussion and the section entitled "Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results" describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause these differences. RESULTS OPERATIONS Net Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Net sales..................... $ , % $ , % $ , Net sales are composed the selling price books, music and other products and services sold the Company, net returns, well outbound shipping and handling charges. Growth net sales and reflects significant increase units sold due the growth the Company\' customer base and repeat purchases from the Company\' existing customers. The Company had approximately million and million cumulative customer accounts December , and , respectively. Repeat customer orders accounted for over % orders placed the Amazon com Web site during the fiscal year ended December , . Additionally, the increase net sales was partially due the opening the music store June , the United Kingdom and German stores October and the video store November . International sales, including export sales from the United States, represented approximately %, % and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. Although there can assurances, the Company does not expect the introduction the Euro resulting from the European Monetary Union significantly impact our competitive position operations. Gross Profit % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Gross profit.................... $ , % $ , % $ , Gross margin.................... % % % Gross profit consists sales less the cost sales, which consists the cost merchandise sold customers, well outbound and inbound shipping costs. Gross profit increased and absolute dollars, reflecting the Company\' increased sales volume. Gross margin increased result improvements product costs through improved supply chain management, including increased direct purchasing from publishers, which together more than offset the impact aggressive product pricing and lower music and video margins. Gross margin decreased due combination lower prices and lower overall shipping margins, partially offset improvements product cost. The Company believes that offering its customers attractive prices essential component its business strategy. Accordingly, the Company offers everyday discounts % hundreds thousands titles and certain "special value" editions discounted %. The Company may the future expand increase the discounts offers its customers and may otherwise alter its pricing structure and policies. The Company over time intends expand its operations promoting new complementary products sales formats and expanding the breadth and depth its product and service offerings. Gross margins attributable new business areas may lower than those associated with the Company\' existing business activities. particular, June the Company launched its new music store and November launched video store. Music and video gross margins are lower than book gross margins. the extent music and video become larger portion the Company\' product mix, expected have proportionate impact overall product gross margin. Marketing and Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Marketing and sales............. $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales......... % % % Marketing and sales expenses consist primarily advertising, promotional and public relations expenditures, well payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, selling and fulfillment activities. All fulfillment costs not included cost sales, including the cost operating and staffing distribution centers and customer service, are included marketing and sales. The Company expects its costs fulfillment increase based primarily anticipated sales growth and its planned distribution network expansion. Marketing and sales expenses increased and primarily due increases the Company\' advertising and promotional expenditures, increased payroll and related costs associated with fulfilling customer demand and increased credit card fees resulting from higher sales. The increase was also attributable the entry into music and video sales and the launch new stores Germany and the United Kingdom. Marketing and sales expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. The Company intends continue pursue its aggressive branding and marketing campaign, which includes radio, television and print advertising and significant expenditures for online promotion and advertising relationships. addition, the Company intends increase investments marketing, promotion and fulfillment activities related its product, service and international expansion. result the foregoing, the Company expects marketing and sales expenses increase significantly absolute dollars. Product Development % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Product development.............. $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales.......... % % % Product development expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs acquired content, including freelance reviews. The increases product development expenses and were primarily attributable increased staffing and costs related continual feature, content and functionality enhancements the Company\' Web sites and transaction-processing systems, well increased investment systems and telecommunications infrastructure. Such increases included investments associated with the entry into music and video sales, the launch enhanced holiday gift store, new stores Germany and the United Kingdom and operating expenses associated with the acquired entities. Product development expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. date, product development costs have been expensed incurred. The Company believes that continued investment product development critical attaining its strategic objectives. addition ongoing investments its Web stores and infrastructure, the Company intends increase investments products, services and international expansion. result, the Company expects product development expenses increase significantly absolute dollars. General and Administrative % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) General and administrative........ $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales........... % % % General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. The and increases general and administrative expenses were primarily result increased salaries and related expenses associated with the hiring additional personnel and legal and other professional fees related the Company\' growth. , additional expenses were incurred associated with the acquired entities and the related international expansion and expanded activities. Beginning , general and administrative costs have included costs attributable being public company. General and administrative expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. The Company expects general and administrative expenses increase absolute dollars the Company expands its staff and incurs additional costs related the growth its business, including investments associated with products, services and international expansion. Merger and Acquisition Related Costs, Including Amortization Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangibles Merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles, were approximately $ million % net sales . These costs were recorded connection with the Company\' April acquisitions three Internet companies and its August acquisition Junglee. These acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method accounting. Additionally, certain transaction costs were incurred connection with the August merger with PlanetAll, which was accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. Merger and acquisition related costs consist amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles approximately $ million, well approximately $ million, composed primarily equity loss investee and other merger and acquisition related costs. The Company anticipates that future amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles associated with its acquisitions will continue amortized straight-line basis over lives approximately three years, and will amount approximately $ million per quarter until March and approximately $ million per quarter thereafter until the related goodwill and other purchased intangibles are fully amortized. likely that the Company will continue expand its business through acquisitions and internal development. Any additional acquisitions impairment goodwill and other purchased intangibles, well equity losses equity investees, could result additional merger and acquisition related costs. Interest Income and Expense % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ---- ( THOUSANDS) Interest income..................... $ , % $ , % $ Interest expense.................... ( , ) ( ) ( ) Interest income cash and marketable securities increased due higher investment balances resulting from the proceeds from the Senior Discount Notes issued May , and due higher investment balances resulting from the proceeds the Company\' initial public offering May . Interest expense includes interest and amortization deferred charges related the Senior Discount Notes. Interest expense and consists interest and amortization deferred charges related the Company\' $ million three-year senior secured term loan (the "Senior Loan") entered into December , well asset acquisitions financed through loans and capital leases. , interest expense also includes the write-off $ million unamortized loan fees following prepayment the Senior Loan May . The Company expects interest expense increase the future result the Senior Discount Notes, the Convertible Notes and potentially increased financing asset acquisitions through loans and capital leases. The Company also expects interest income increase because higher cash balances resulting from the net proceeds the Convertible Notes. Income Taxes The Company did not provide any current deferred . federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because has experienced operating losses since inception. Utilization the Company\' net operating loss carryforwards, which begin expire , may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended. The Company has provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. PRO FORMA INFORMATION April , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock three Internet companies. Each the acquisitions was accounted for under the purchase method accounting. The aggregate purchase price the three acquisitions, plus related charges, was approximately $ million. The consideration for the acquisitions was comprised common stock and cash. The Company issued aggregate approximately million shares common stock affect the transactions. The Company amortizing the goodwill resulting from the acquisitions straight-line basis over approximately two years. August , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock Junglee. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options and warrants connection with the acquisition Junglee. The Junglee acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method accounting, with substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. August , the Company exchanged common stock and options for all the outstanding capital stock PlanetAll. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options connection with the merger. The PlanetAll merger was accounted for pooling interests and, result, the Company\' consolidated financial statements have been restated for all periods presented. December , , the Company has investment approximately % drugstore com, inc., online drugstore, that accounted for under the equity method accounting. Under the equity method accounting, the Company\' share the investee\' earnings loss included consolidated operating results. The Company\' basis its equity investment classified within other purchased intangibles the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the Company\' share the investee\' loss classified merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles. date, this investment has not materially impacted the Company\' results operations its financial position. Pro forma information regarding the Company\' results, excluding approximately $ million merger and acquisition related costs, which include amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles, for the business combinations discussed above, well the Company\' share losses from its investee, follows: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------- ( THOUSANDS) Pro forma loss from operations.............................. $( , ) Pro forma net loss.......................................... $( , ) Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share.................. $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share..................................................... , The pro forma results for the year ended December , are presented for informational purposes only and are not prepared accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES December , , the Company\' cash was $ million, compared $ million December , . Marketable securities balances, which include highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, were $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Net cash provided operating activities $ million and $ , for the years ended December , and , respectively, was primarily attributable increases accounts payable, other liabilities and accrued expenses, accrued advertising and non-cash expenses, largely offset the net loss and increases inventories and prepaid expenses and other. Net cash used investing activities was $ million for the year ended December , and consisted net purchases marketable securities, purchases fixed assets, and acquisitions, dispositions and investments businesses. For the year ended December , , net cash used investing activities was $ million and consisted net purchases marketable securities and purchases fixed assets. Net cash provided financing activities $ million for the year ended December , resulted from net proceeds approximately $ million from the Senior Discount Notes offering, net proceeds approximately $ million from PlanetAll\' issuance capital stock, and proceeds from the exercise stock options $ million, partially offset the repayment the Senior Loan. Net cash provided financing activities $ million for the year ended December , resulted primarily from net proceeds from the Senior Loan, the Company\' initial public offering and PlanetAll\' issuance capital stock. December , , the Company\' principal sources liquidity consisted $ million cash and marketable securities. that date, the Company\' principal commitments consisted obligations outstanding under its Senior Discount Notes, obligations connection with the acquisition fixed assets, operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements. The Company anticipates substantial increase its capital expenditures and lease commitments consistent with anticipated growth operations, infrastructure and personnel, including growth associated with product and service offerings, geographic expansion and integration business combinations. For example, August , the Company entered into long-term office lease, which will result increased lease obligations commencing , and, December , the Company leased highly mechanized distribution facility Fernley, Nevada, which expected begin operations . Bringing these facilities operational readiness will require significant leasehold improvement and capital expenditures, and require the Company stock inventories, purchase fixed assets and hire and train employees. The Company intends establish one more additional distribution centers within the next months, which would require commit lease obligations, stock inventories, purchase fixed assets, hire and train employees and install leasehold improvements. addition, the Company has announced plans continue developing distribution infrastructure increase efficiency and support greater customer demand and increase its inventory provide better availability customers and achieve purchasing efficiencies. Senior Discount Notes May , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds the Senior Discount Notes. Pursuant registration statement Form - , September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Exchange Notes"), which were registered under the Securities Act , amended (the "Securities Act"), for all outstanding Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout this Annual Report interchangeably with the Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the original Senior Discount Notes (the "Senior Notes Indenture"). The Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the $ million aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest the rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Senior Notes Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. Upon Change Control ( defined the Senior Notes Indenture), the Company would required make offer purchase the Senior Discount Notes purchase price equal % their Accreted Value the date purchase, plus accrued interest, any. There can assurance that the Company would have sufficient funds available the time any Change Control make any required debt repayment (including repurchases the Senior Discount Notes). The Senior Notes Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries ( defined the Senior Notes Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all financial covenants December , . Convertible Subordinated Notes February , the Company completed offering approximately $ billion the Convertible Notes. Interest payments the Convertible Notes % per annum are due and payable semiannually arrears cash February and August each year, commencing August , . The Convertible Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness defined the indenture governing the Convertible Notes (the "Convertible Notes Indenture"). The Convertible Notes are generally convertible into common stock the Company, unless redeemed repaid prior maturity, conversion price $ per share. The Convertible Notes may redeemed the Company (the "Provisional Redemption"), whole part, any time prior February , , redemption price equal $ , per Convertible Note redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, any, the date redemption (the "Provisional Redemption Date") ( ) the closing price the common stock shall have exceeded % the conversion price then effect for least trading days any consecutive -trading day period and ( ) the shelf registration statement covering resales the Convertible Notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion the Convertible Notes effective and available for use and expected remain effective and available for use for the days following the Provisional Redemption Date. Upon any Provisional Redemption, the Company will make additional payment cash with respect the Convertible Notes called for redemption amount equal $ per $ , Convertible Note, less the amount any interest actually paid such Convertible Note prior the call for redemption. The Company must make these payments all the Convertible Notes called for redemption, including Convertible Notes called after the date the call for redemption. After February , , the Convertible Notes will redeemable least days\' notice the option the Company, whole part, any time, the redemption prices set forth the Convertible Notes Indenture. Upon occurrence any Fundamental Change ( defined the Convertible Notes Indenture) prior the maturity the Convertible Notes, each holder the Convertible Notes has the right require the Company redeem all any part the holder\' Convertible Notes price equal % the principal amount, plus any accrued interest, the Convertible Notes being redeemed. The Company will, for the benefit the holders, file with the Securities and Exchange Commission soon practicable, but any event within days after the first date original issuance the Convertible Notes, shelf registration statement covering resales the Convertible Notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion the Convertible Notes. The Company has may use the net proceeds from the offering the Convertible Notes for general corporate purposes, including working capital fund anticipated operating losses, the expansion the Company\' core business, investments new business segments and markets, capital expenditures, acquisitions investments complementary businesses, products and technologies and repurchases and retirement debt. The Company believes that current cash and marketable securities balances, together with net proceeds from the Convertible Notes, will sufficient meet its anticipated cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. current cash, marketable securities and cash that may generated from operations are insufficient satisfy the Company\' liquidity requirements, the Company may seek sell additional equity debt securities obtain line credit. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities could result additional dilution the Company\' stockholders. addition, the Company will, from time time, consider the acquisition investment complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the repurchase and retirement debt, which might impact the Company\' liquidity requirements cause the Company issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that financing will available amounts terms acceptable the Company, all. YEAR IMPLICATIONS Many current installed computer systems and software may coded accept only two-digit entries the date code field and cannot distinguish 21st century dates from 20th century dates. result, many software and computer systems may need upgraded replaced. The Company the process assessing the Year issue and expects complete the program the second quarter . The Company has not incurred material costs date the process, and does not believe that the cost additional actions will have material effect its operating results financial condition. However, the Company has established budget totaling approximately $ million for the acquisition contract software services that will assist the Year assessment and remediation activities completed later than the third quarter . Amazon com\' current systems and products may contain undetected errors defects with Year date functions that may result material costs. addition, the Company utilizes third-party equipment, software and content, including non-information technology systems, such security systems, building equipment and embedded micro-controllers that may not Year compliant. The Company the process developing plan assess whether its internally developed software, third-party systems and non-information technology systems are adequately addressing the Year issue. Failure third-party equipment, software content operate properly with regard the Year issue could require the Company incur unanticipated expenses remedy problems, which could have material adverse effect its business, operating results and financial condition. Amazon com assessing whether third parties its supply and distribution chain are adequately addressing their Year compliance issues. The Company has initiated formal communications with its significant suppliers and service providers determine the extent which its systems may vulnerable such suppliers and providers fail address and correct their own Year issues. The Company cannot guarantee that the systems suppliers other companies which the Company relies will Year compliant. The Company the process developing contingency plan that will address situations that may result should Year compliance for critical operations not fully achieved . ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company does not have any derivative financial instruments December , . However, the Company exposed interest rate risk. The Company employs established policies and procedures manage its exposure changes the market risk its marketable securities, which are classified available-for-sale December , . The Company\' Senior Discount Notes, Convertible Notes and other long-term debt have fixed interest rates and the fair value these instruments affected changes market interest rates. The Company believes that the market risk arising from holdings its financial instruments not material. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources." The table below provides information about the Company\' marketable securities, including principal cash flows for through and the related weighted average interest rates. Principal (notional) amounts expected maturity . dollars ( thousands): ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE DECEMBER , THEREAFTER TOTAL -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ---------- -------- -------------- Commercial paper and short-term obligations...................... $ , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate..... % % Corporate notes and bonds.......... , , -- -- -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate..... % % % Asset-backed and agency securities....................... -- , , , , , , , Weighted average interest rate..... % % % % % % Treasury notes and bonds........... , , , , -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate..... % % % % % -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- Total Portfolio, excluding equity securities............ $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ======== ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= ======== ======== ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE ---- Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors........... Consolidated Balance Sheets................................. Consolidated Statements Operations....................... Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity............. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows....................... Notes Consolidated Financial Statements.................. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item ( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. ERNST & YOUNG LLP Seattle, Washington January , , except for Note which the date February , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) ASSETS DECEMBER , -------------------- -------- -------- Current assets: Cash...................................................... $ , $ , Marketable securities..................................... , , Inventories............................................... , , Prepaid expenses and other................................ , , -------- -------- Total current assets.............................. , , Fixed assets, net........................................... , , Deposits and other.......................................... Goodwill and other purchased intangibles, net............... , -- Deferred charges............................................ , , -------- -------- Total assets...................................... $ , $ , ======== ======== LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable.......................................... $ , $ , Accrued advertising....................................... , , Other liabilities and accrued expenses.................... , , Current portion long-term debt......................... , -------- -------- Total current liabilities......................... , , Long-term debt.............................................. , , Long-term portion capital lease obligation............... Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , Issued and outstanding shares -- none..................... -- -- Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , Issued and outstanding shares -- , and , shares and , respectively.................. , , Additional paid- capital.................................. , , Note receivable from officer for common stock............... ( , ) -- Deferred compensation....................................... ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income...................... , -- Accumulated deficit......................................... ( , ) ( , ) -------- -------- Total stockholders\' equity........................ , , -------- -------- Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity........ $ , $ , ======== ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------------------- --------- -------- -------- Net sales................................................. $ , $ , $ , Cost sales............................................. , , , --------- -------- -------- Gross profit......................................... , , , Operating expenses: Marketing and sales..................................... , , , Product development..................................... , , , General and administrative.............................. , , , Merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles.......................................... , -- -- --------- -------- -------- Total operating expenses........................ , , , --------- -------- -------- Loss from operations...................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest income........................................... , , Interest expense.......................................... ( , ) ( ) ( ) --------- -------- -------- Net interest income (expense)........................ ( , ) , --------- -------- -------- Net loss.................................................. $( , ) $( , ) $ ( , ) ========= ======== ======== Basic and diluted loss per share.......................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======== Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................................... , , , ========= ======== ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( THOUSANDS) PREFERRED ADVANCES NOTE RECEIVABLE STOCK COMMON STOCK RECEIVED FOR ADDITIONAL FROM OFFICER --------------- ---------------- COMMON PAID- FOR DEFERRED SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT STOCK CAPITAL COMMON STOCK COMPENSATION ------ ------ ------- ------ ------------ ---------- --------------- ------------ Balance January , .................... -- $-- , $ , $ $ -- $ -- $ -- Net loss................ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Reincorporation Delaware.............. -- -- -- ( ) -- -- -- Sale preferred stock, net $ issuance costs................. -- -- -- , -- -- Sale common stock.... -- -- , ( ) -- -- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- -- -- -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , -- -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ---- -- ------- ------ ---- -------- ------- ------- Balance December , .................... , -- , -- ( ) Net loss................ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Sale preferred stock................. -- -- -- -- -- -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs................. -- -- , -- , -- -- Conversion preferred stock into common stock................. ( ) ( ) , -- ( ) -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued product development........... -- -- , -- , -- -- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , -- , -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , -- -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) -- , ---- -- ------- ------ ---- -------- ------- ------- Balance December , .................... -- -- , , -- , -- ( , ) Net loss................ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation losses.... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Unrealized gain marketable securities............ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Comprehensive loss....... Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , -- , -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , -- , -- -- Note receivable from officer for common stock................. -- -- -- -- -- -- ( , ) -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- , ---- -- ------- ------ ---- -------- ------- ------- Balance December , .................... -- $-- , $ , $ -- $ , $( , ) $( , ) ==== == ======= ====== ==== ======== ======= ======= ACCUMULATED OTHER TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE ACCUMULATED STOCKHOLDERS\' INCOME DEFICIT EQUITY ------------- ----------- ------------- Balance January , .................... $ -- $ ( ) $ Net loss................ -- ( , ) ( , ) Reincorporation Delaware.............. -- -- -- Sale preferred stock, net $ issuance costs................. -- -- , Sale common stock.... -- -- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- ------ --------- --------- Balance December , .................... -- ( , ) , Net loss................ -- ( , ) ( , ) Sale preferred stock................. -- -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs................. -- -- , Conversion preferred stock into common stock................. -- -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued product development........... -- -- , Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , Exercise common stock options............... -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- , ------ --------- --------- Balance December , .................... -- ( , ) , --------- Net loss................ -- ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation losses.... ( ) -- ( ) Unrealized gain marketable securities............ , -- , --------- Comprehensive loss....... ( , ) --------- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , Note receivable from officer for common stock................. -- -- ( , ) Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- , ------ --------- --------- Balance December , .................... $ , $( , ) $ , ====== ========= ========= See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( THOUSANDS) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------------------- --------- --------- ------- OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net loss.................................................. $( , ) $ ( , ) $( , ) Adjustments reconcile net loss net cash provided (used ) operating activities: Depreciation and amortization........................... , , Amortization deferred compensation related stock options.............................................. , , -- Non-cash merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles.......................................... , -- -- Non-cash interest expense............................... , -- Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories............................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Prepaid expenses and other.............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Deposits and other...................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable........................................ , , , Accrued advertising..................................... , , Other liabilities and accrued expenses.................. , , , --------- --------- ------- Net cash provided (used ) operating activities..... , ( , ) INVESTING ACTIVITIES Maturities marketable securities....................... , , -- Purchases marketable securities........................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisitions, dispositions, and investments businesses.............................................. ( , ) -- -- --------- --------- ------- Net cash used investing activities........... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net proceeds from initial public offering................. -- , -- Proceeds from exercise stock options................... , Proceeds from issuance capital stock................... , , , Proceeds from long-term debt.............................. , , -- Repayment long-term debt............................... ( , ) ( ) -- Financing costs........................................... ( , ) ( , ) -- --------- --------- ------- Net cash provided financing activities....... , , , Effect exchange rate changes........................... ( ) -- -- --------- --------- ------- Net increase cash...................................... , , Cash beginning period............................... , --------- --------- ------- Cash end period..................................... $ , $ , $ ========= ========= ======= SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION Common stock issued connection with acquisitions....... $ , $ -- $ -- Common stock issued for fixed assets and accrued product development............................................. $ -- $ , $ -- Fixed assets acquired under capital lease................. $ -- $ $ -- Fixed assets acquired under financing agreement........... $ -- $ , $ -- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE -- ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Inc. ("Amazon com" the "Company"), Internet retailer, was incorporated July and opened its virtual doors the Web July . Amazon com offers book, music , video, DVD, computer game and other titles its Web sites. Business Combinations and Investments For business combinations which have been accounted for under the purchase method accounting, the Company includes the results operations the acquired business from the date acquisition. Net assets the companies acquired are recorded their fair value the date acquisition. The excess the purchase price over the fair value net assets acquired included goodwill and other purchased intangibles the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Other business combinations are accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. such cases, the assets, liabilities and stockholders\' equity the acquired entities are combined with the Company\' respective accounts recorded values. The consolidated financial statements reflect the restatement all periods presented include the accounts merged entities accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. The historical results the pooled entities reflect each their actual operating cost structures and, result, not necessarily reflect the cost structure the newly combined entity. The historical results not purport indicative future results. Investments affiliated entities which the Company has the ability exercise significant influence investee, generally % greater ownership interest the voting stock, are accounted for under the equity method accounting. Under the equity method accounting, the Company\' share the investee\' earnings loss included consolidated operating results. All other investments, for which the Company does not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method accounting. Dividends and other distributions earnings from other investees, any, are included income when declared. The Company periodically evaluates the carrying value its investments accounted for under the cost method accounting and December , , such investments were recorded the lower cost estimated net realizable value. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities and disclosure contingent assets and liabilities the date the financial statements and the reported amounts revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Marketable Securities The Company\' marketable securities consist primarily high-quality short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds, are classified available-for-sale and are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reported, net taxes, component AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) stockholders\' equity within accumulated other comprehensive income. Unrealized losses are charged against income when decline fair value determined other than temporary. The specific identification method used determine the cost securities sold. The Company classifies all investments cash marketable securities, including highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, and reflects the related cash flows investing cash flows. result the classification highly liquid investments within marketable securities, significant portion the Company\' gross marketable securities purchases and maturities disclosed investing cash flows related highly liquid investments. Inventories Inventories are valued the lower cost market. The Company purchases majority its products from three major vendors, Ingram Book Group ("Ingram"), Baker & Taylor, Inc. and Valley Media Inc. late , Barnes & Noble announced agreement purchase Ingram. Ingram the Company\' single largest supplier and accounted for approximately % and approximately % the Company\' inventory purchases and , respectively. The Company does not have long-term contracts arrangements with most its vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. The Company\' current vendors may stop selling merchandise the Company acceptable terms. The Company may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally one ten years). Fixed assets purchased under capital leases are amortized straight-line basis over the lesser the estimated useful life the asset the lease term. Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangibles Goodwill and other purchased intangibles represent the excess the purchase price over the fair value assets acquired. Total goodwill approximately $ million and other purchased intangibles approximately $ million are stated net total accumulated amortization $ million December , the accompanying balance sheet. Goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangibles are being amortized straight-line basis over lives ranging from two three years. Long-Lived Assets accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed , the carrying value intangible assets and other long-lived assets reviewed regular basis for the existence facts circumstances, both internally and externally, that may suggest impairment. date, such impairment has been indicated. Should there impairment the future, the Company will measure the amount the impairment based undiscounted expected future cash flows from the impaired assets. The cash flow estimates that will used will contain management\' best estimates, using appropriate and customary assumptions and projections the time. Fair Value Financial Instruments The carrying amounts for the Company\' cash, prepaid expenses and other, deposits and other, accounts payable, accrued advertising, and other liabilities and accrued expenses approximate fair value. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The fair market value for long-term debt and marketable securities based quoted market prices where available. Deferred Charges May , the Company issued approximately $ million gross proceeds % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Senior Discount Notes"). December , , deferred charges consisted fees associated with the issuance the Senior Discount Notes. The fees are being amortized into interest expense over the life the Senior Discount Notes. Income Taxes The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected effect when the differences are expected recovered. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue from product sales, net any discounts, when the products are shipped customers. Outbound shipping and handling charges are included net sales. Revenue from gift certificates recognized upon product shipment following redemption. The Company provides allowance for sales returns, which has been insignificant, based historical experience. Advertising Costs The cost advertising expensed incurred. For the years ended December , , and , the Company incurred advertising expense $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Product Development Product development expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants, systems and telecommunications infrastructure and costs acquired content. date, all product development costs have been expensed incurred. Merger and Acquisition Related Costs Merger and acquisition related costs consist primarily amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles approximately $ million, well approximately $ million, composed primarily equity loss investee and other merger and acquisition related costs. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees ("APB . "), and related interpretations, accounting for its employee stock options rather than the alternative fair value accounting allowed SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. APB . provides that the compensation expense relative the Company\' employee stock options measured based the intrinsic value the stock option. SFAS . requires companies that continue follow APB . provide pro forma disclosure the impact applying the fair value method SFAS . . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Foreign Currency Translation The functional currency the Company\' foreign subsidiaries the local currency. Assets and liabilities the foreign subsidiaries are translated into . dollars year end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are included accumulated other comprehensive income, separate component stockholders\' equity. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved, which have been insignificant, are included the consolidated statements operations. date, the Company has entered into foreign currency exchange contracts other such derivative instruments. Segment and Geographic Information The Company operates one principal business segment across domestic and international markets. International sales, including export sales from the United States, represented approximately %, %, and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. foreign country geographic area accounted for more than % net sales any the periods presented. There were transfers between geographic areas during the years ended December , and . Substantially all the domestic operating results and identifiable assets are the United States. Concentrations Credit Risk Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company concentrations credit risk, consist principally its holdings cash and marketable securities. The Company\' credit risk managed investing its cash and marketable securities high-quality money market instruments and securities the . government and its agencies, foreign governments and high-quality corporate issuers. December , , the Company has significant concentrations credit risk. Earnings (Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share excludes any dilutive effects options, warrants and convertible securities. Basic earnings per share computed using the weighted-average number common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed using the weighted-average number common and common stock equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation their effect antidilutive. result the Company\' initial public offering May , all preferred stock automatically converted into common stock. Accordingly, the and net loss per share pro forma loss per share based the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding and preferred stock " " converted basis outstanding during each period. The Company believes that this more meaningful presentation earnings per share for periods prior its initial public offering. Comprehensive Income (Loss) January , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Reporting Comprehensive Income, which establishes standards for the reporting and display comprehensive income and its components the financial statements. The only items comprehensive income (loss) that the Company currently reports are unrealized gains (losses) marketable securities and foreign currency translation adjustments. New Accounting Pronouncements March , the Accounting Standards Executive Committee issued Statement Position - ("SOP - "), Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) SOP - requires all costs related the development internal use software other than those incurred during the application development stage expensed incurred. Costs incurred during the application development stage are required capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software. SOP - effective for the Company\' fiscal year ending December , . Adoption not expected have material effect the Company\' consolidated financial statements the Company\' policies are substantially compliance with SOP - . April , the American Institute Certified Public Accountants issued SOP - , Reporting the Costs Start- Activities. SOP - effective for the Company\' fiscal year ending December , . SOP - requires costs start- activities and organization costs expensed incurred. Adoption not expected have material effect the Company\' consolidated financial statements. June , the FASB issued SFAS . Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS . effective for fiscal years beginning after June , . SFAS . requires that all derivative instruments recorded the balance sheet their fair value. Changes the fair value derivatives are recorded each period current earnings other comprehensive income, depending whether derivative designed part hedge transaction and, , the type hedge transaction. The Company does not expect that the adoption SFAS . will have material impact its consolidated financial statements because the Company does not currently hold any derivative instruments. Reclassifications Certain prior year balances have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. NOTE -- BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND INVESTMENTS April , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock three international Internet companies. The aggregate purchase price the three acquisitions, plus related charges, was approximately $ million. The consideration for the acquisitions was comprised common stock and cash. The Company issued aggregate approximately million shares common stock effect the transactions. The goodwill and other purchased intangibles are being amortized straight-line basis over two years. August , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock Junglee Corp. ("Junglee"). Junglee leading provider Web-based virtual database technology which allows visitors access variety products sold other merchants. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options and warrants connection with the acquisition Junglee. The Junglee acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method accounting, with substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. November , the Company sold the employment business unit Junglee exchange for cash and approximately million shares the purchaser\' common stock. There was gain loss recorded from this sale. The investment recorded cost and classified within marketable securities the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The pro forma combined consolidated financial information for the aggregate all the business combinations described above and accounted for under the purchase method accounting, though the acquisitions had occurred January each year, would have resulted net sales $ million and $ million; net loss $ million and $ million; and basic and diluted loss per share $ and $ for the years ended December , and , respectively. The pro forma net loss includes amortization goodwill and purchased intangibles $ million for the years ended December , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) and . This unaudited pro forma combined consolidated financial information presented for illustrative purposes only and not necessarily indicative the consolidated results operations future periods the results that actually would have been realized had Amazon com, the international subsidiaries and Junglee been combined company during the specified periods. August , the Company exchanged common stock and options for all the outstanding capital stock Sage Enterprises, Inc. ("PlanetAll"). The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options connection with the merger. The PlanetAll merger was accounted for pooling interests and, result, the Company\' consolidated financial statements have been restated for all periods presented. PlanetAll issued approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million and approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million January and April , respectively. Net sales for PlanetAll were not significant and net loss was $ million, $ million and $ , for the nine months ended September , and the years ended December , and , respectively, which represent separate results the combined entity through the periods preceding the merger. There were significant intercompany transactions between the two companies and significant conforming accounting adjustments. December , , the Company has investment approximately % drugstore com, inc., online drugstore, that accounted for under the equity method accounting. The Company\' basis its equity investment classified within other purchased intangibles the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the Company\' share the investee\' loss classified merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles. date, this investment has not materially impacted the Company\' results operations its financial position. NOTE -- MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize major security type the Company\' marketable securities and their contractual maturities: DECEMBER , --------------------------------------------------- GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED ESTIMATED COST GAINS LOSSES FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Commercial paper and short-term obligations........................... $ , $ $ -- $ , Corporate notes and bonds............... , ( ) , Asset-backed and agency securities...... , ( ) , Treasury notes and bonds................ , ( ) , Equity securities....................... , , -- , -------- ------ ----- -------- $ , $ , $( ) $ , ======== ====== ===== ======== AMORTIZED ESTIMATED COST FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Due within one year.................................... $ , $ , Due after one year through five years.................. , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities........................................... , , Equity securities...................................... , , -------- -------- $ , $ , ======== ======== AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The gross realized gains and losses sales available-for-sale securities were not significant for the year ended December , . The net adjustment unrealized holding gains available-for-sale securities included accumulated other comprehensive income component stockholders\' equity totaled approximately $ million. December , , marketable securities consist primarily commercial paper and short-term obligations and corporate notes and bonds and were carried cost, which approximates market. Unrealized holding gains and losses December , were not significant. NOTE -- FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consist the following: DECEMBER , ----------------- ------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Computers and equipment........................... $ , $ , Purchased software................................ , , Leasehold improvements............................ , Leased assets..................................... ------- ------ , , Less accumulated depreciation and amortization.... , , ------- ------ Fixed assets, net............................ $ , $ , ======= ====== NOTE -- LONG-TERM DEBT Senior Discount Notes May , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds the Senior Discount Notes due May , . Pursuant registration statement Form - September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Exchange Notes"), which were registered under the Securities Act , amended, for all outstanding Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout these notes consolidated financial statements interchangeably with the Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the original Senior Discount Notes (the "Indenture"). The Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the $ million aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. The Senior Discount Notes are senior unsecured indebtedness the Company ranking pari passu with the Company\' existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness and senior right payment all subordinated indebtedness the Company. The Senior Discount Notes are effectively subordinated all secured indebtedness and all existing and future liabilities the Company\' subsidiaries. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries ( defined the Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all financial covenants December , . portion the net proceeds from the offering the Senior Discount Notes was used retire approximately $ million indebtedness outstanding December , . Future principal payments related the Senior Discount Notes not commence until . The carrying amount the Senior Discount Notes approximately $ million December , , which approximates fair value. Financing Agreement for Purchase Fixed Assets November , the Company purchased fixed assets through financing agreement with vendor having imputed interest rate approximately % and term three years. The debt repaid four equal payments. Future debt payments related this financing agreement are $ , and $ , for the years ending December , and , respectively, and none thereafter. NOTE -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Leases and Marketing Agreements The Company currently leases office and distribution center facilities and fixed assets under noncancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for , and was $ million, $ million and $ , , respectively. The Company has also entered into certain marketing agreements, which include fixed fees through . The costs associated with these agreements are recognized systematic basis over the term the related agreements services are received. Future minimum commitments are follows: OPERATING LEASES AND CAPITAL MARKETING LEASES AGREEMENTS ------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , .............................................. $ $ , .............................................. , .............................................. -- , .............................................. -- , .............................................. -- , Thereafter........................................ -- , ---- -------- Total minimum lease payments........................... $ $ , ======== Less imputed interest.................................. ---- Present value net minimum lease payments............ Less current portion.............................. ---- Long-term capital lease obligation..................... $ ==== AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Legal Proceedings October , Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Wal-Mart") filed lawsuit Bentonville, Arkansas against the Company and other defendants alleging actual and threatened misappropriation trade secrets and ancillary common-law claims. Wal-Mart subsequently requested temporary restraining order preventing the defendants from misappropriating Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets, from placing employees positions which they would "inevitably disclose" Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets and from soliciting, inducing recruiting Wal-Mart employees. January , Wal-Mart filed identical action Seattle, Washington, and the Arkansas court dismissed Wal-Mart\' action jurisdictional grounds before deciding the temporary restraining order. The dismissal pending appeal. Wal-Mart has advised the Company that will file preliminary injunction motion. addition injunctive relief, Wal-Mart has requested compensatory damages, pre- and postjudgment interest and attorneys\' fees and costs. The Company believes that Wal-Mart\' claims are without merit and intends vigorously defend against the plaintiffs\' claims. Amazon com has filed counterclaim based part unfair competition and intentional interference. Litigation inherently uncertain, and there can assurance that the Company will prevail the lawsuit. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. NOTE -- STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Reincorporation and Authorized Capital May , the Company reincorporated the state Delaware with authorized capital million shares $ par value preferred stock and million shares $ par value common stock. April , the Company increased its authorized common stock million shares and increased its authorized preferred stock million shares. June , the Company increased the number authorized shares common stock, from million shares million shares. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restated reflect these recapitalizations. Preferred Stock June , the Company issued , shares Series convertible preferred stock price $ per share. January and February , the Company sold additional , shares Series preferred stock $ per share. The preferred stock was convertible into common stock the option the holder, any time, effective rate shares common stock for one share preferred stock. the closing the Company\' initial public offering, all the preferred stock outstanding was converted into aggregate , , shares common stock. Common Stock November , , the Company effected -for- common stock split. April , , the Company effected -for- common stock split. May , , the Company completed initial public offering million shares its common stock. Net proceeds the Company aggregated $ million. June , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend stockholders record May , . January , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend the stockholders record December , . Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restated reflect these stock splits. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Stock Option Plans The Company\' stock option plans consist the Stock Option Plan and the Stock Option Plan. Shares reserved under the plans consist million shares the Stock Option Plan and million shares the Stock Option Plan. Any shares common stock available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan that are not issued under that plan may added the aggregate number shares available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan. connection with the acquisition Junglee and the merger with PlanetAll August , the Company assumed outstanding options purchase common stock originally issued under these companies\' stock option plans. The Company\' stock options plans well the assumed stock option plans are hereby collectively referred the "Plans." Generally, options are granted the Company\' Board Directors exercise price not less than the fair market value the Company\' common stock the date grant. Each outstanding option granted prior December , has term five years from the date vesting. Each outstanding option granted subsequent December , has term ten years from the date grant. Subject Internal Revenue Service limitations, options granted under the Plans generally become exercisable immediately. Options generally vest the rate % after year one, % after year two and % the end each quarter for years three through five. Shares issued upon exercise options that are unvested are restricted and subject repurchase the Company upon termination employment services and such restrictions lapse over the original vesting schedule. December , , approximately million shares restricted common stock were subject repurchase. Stock Option Activity The following table summarizes the Company\' stock option activity: NUMBER WEIGHTED- AVERAGE SHARES EXERCISE PRICE -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) Balance January , ........................... , $ Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------ Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------ Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------ Balance December , ......................... , $ ====== December , , million shares common stock were available for future grant under the Plans. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The following table summarizes information about options outstanding and exercisable December , : OPTIONS OUTSTANDING --------------------------------------------- WEIGHTED- OPTIONS EXERCISABLE AVERAGE ------------------------------- REMAINING WEIGHTED- WEIGHTED- RANGE OPTIONS CONTRACTUAL AVERAGE OPTIONS AVERAGE EXERCISE PRICES OUTSTANDING LIFE EXERCISE PRICE EXERCISABLE EXERCISE PRICE --------------- -------------- ----------- -------------- -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) ( THOUSANDS) $ -- $ , years $ , $ -- , years , -- , years , -- , years , -- , years , -- years -- , years , -- , years , -- years -- years ------ ------ $ -- $ , years $ , $ ====== ====== Deferred Compensation The Company recorded aggregate deferred compensation $ million, $ million and $ , , and , respectively. The amounts recorded represent the difference between the grant price and the deemed fair value the Company\' common stock for shares subject options granted , and . Options granted below fair market value and the associated weighted average exercise price per share were , and $ , million and $ , and million and $ during the years ended December , , and , respectively. The amortization deferred compensation charged operations over the vesting period the options, which typically five years. Total amortization recognized and was $ million and $ million, respectively. amortization was recognized . Pro Forma Disclosure The Company follows the intrinsic value method accounting for its stock options. Had compensation cost been recognized based the fair value the date grant for options granted , and , the pro forma amounts the Company\' net loss and net loss per share for the years ended December , , and would have been follows: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------- ----------- ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported............................ $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) Net loss -- pro forma.............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- reported.... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- pro forma...... ( ) ( ) ( ) AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The fair value for each option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option pricing model, assuming expected dividends and the following weighted-average assumptions: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------- --------- -------- ------- Average risk-free interest rates................... % % % Average expected life ( years)................... Volatility ( )..................................... % % % - --------------- ( ) Options granted prior the Company\' initial public offering and PlanetAll prior its merger with the Company were valued using the minimum value method and therefore volatility was not applicable. The weighted-average fair value options granted during the years , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively, for options granted fair market value. The weighted-average fair value options granted less than fair market value during , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively. Compensation expense recognized providing pro forma disclosures may not representative the effects pro forma earnings for future years because SFAS . does not apply stock option grants made prior . Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance June , pursuant registration statement Form - , the Company registered million shares its common stock, which may from time time offered connection with the acquisition entities. Such shares may issued exchange for the shares capital stock ( merger otherwise), partnership interests other assets representing interest other companies other entities, exchange for assets used related the business such entities. December , , common stock reserved for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock options............................................... , Shelf registration.......................................... , ------ Total.................................................. , ====== NOTE -- EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE The following represents the calculations for net loss per share: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------- ----------- ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported.................... $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ========= ======== ======= Weighted average shares outstanding........ , , , Pro forma adjustment for preferred stock... -- , , Weighted average common shares issued subject repurchase agreements......... ( , ) ( , ) ( ) --------- -------- ------- Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................... , , , ========= ======== ======= Basic and diluted loss per share........... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======= AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) All the Company\' stock options (see Note ) are excluded from diluted loss per share since their effect antidilutive. NOTE -- INCOME TAXES The Company did not provide any current deferred United States federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because has experienced operating losses since inception. The Company has provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. December , , the Company had net operating loss carryforwards approximately $ million related . federal, foreign and state jurisdictions. Utilization net operating loss carryforwards may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended. Substantially all these carryforwards will begin expire various times starting . the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, when realized, relate stock option deductions approximately $ million, the resulting benefits will credited stockholders\' equity. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets are approximately follows: DECEMBER , ------------------ ------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Net operating loss carryforwards......................... $ , $ , Depreciation and amortization............................ , -- Other.................................................... , , ------- ------- Total deferred tax assets......................... , , Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets.............. ( , ) ( , ) ------- ------- Net deferred tax assets.................................. $ -- $ -- ======= ======= NOTE -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN The Company has ( ) savings plan covering substantially all its employees. Eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. The Company matches employees\' contributions the discretion the Company\' Board Directors. date, the Company has not matched employee contributions the ( ) savings plan. NOTE -- SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , the Company completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the "Convertible Notes"). The Convertible Notes are convertible into the Company\' common stock conversion price $ per share, subject adjustment certain events and the holders\' option. Interest the Convertible Notes payable semiannually arrears February and August each year, commencing August , . The Convertible Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness ( defined the Convertible Notes indenture) the Company. The Convertible Notes may redeemed the option the Company prior February , , whole part, the redemption prices set forth the Convertible Notes indenture. The Company obligated file May , , shelf registration statement covering resales the Convertible Notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion the Convertible Notes. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Upon occurrence any Fundamental Change ( defined the Convertible Notes indenture) prior the maturity the Convertible Notes, each holder the Convertible Notes has the right require the Company redeem all any part the holder\' Convertible Notes price equal % the principal amount, plus any accrued interest, the Convertible Notes being redeemed. The Company has may use the net proceeds from the offering the Convertible Notes for general corporate purposes, including working capital fund anticipated operating losses, the expansion the Company\' core business, investments new business segments and markets, capital expenditures, acquisitions investments complementary businesses, products and technologies and repurchases and retirement debt. Authorized Shares February , , the Board Directors approved increase authorized shares common stock and preferred stock, par value $ per share, from million shares billion shares and from million shares million shares, respectively. This increase authorized shares subject approval the stockholders the Company\' Annual Meeting May , . Stock Option Plan February , , the Board Directors approved the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, which reserves million shares common stock available for future issuance. NOTE -- QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited Statement Operations information for each quarter and . The Company believes that the following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share( )............. $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share................ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , - --------------- ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. ITEM . CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information regarding the Company\' executive officers required Part III, Item , set forth Item Part herein under the caption "Executive Officers and Directors." Information required Part III, Item , regarding the Company\' directors included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. Information relating compliance with Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, set forth the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information required Part III, Item , included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT Information required Part III, Item , included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information regarding certain the Company\' relationships and related transactions included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) LIST DOCUMENTS FILED PART THIS ANNUAL REPORT: ( ) INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) INDEX FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES: Schedule -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) INDEX EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Acquisition, Inc. and Junglee Corporation (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Pacific Acquisition, Inc. and Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Registration Rights Agreement entered into May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Junglee Corp. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Telebook, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed September , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Note Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors and Executive Officers (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Incentive Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Investor Rights Agreement, dated June , , and among the Company, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VIII, KPCB Information Sciences Zaibatsu Fund and Jeffrey . Bezos (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between the Company and McConnell Development, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). Lease Agreement, dated April , , and between Bookpages Limited and Amazon com, Inc. and Slough Trading Estate Limited (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended June , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and WRC COM Tower LLC (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). + Junglee Corp. Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed October , ). Lease Agreement, dated December , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and Panattoni Carlsen Rieger. List Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Financial Data Schedule. - --------------- + Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) REPORTS FORM - : October , , the Company filed Form - under Item , which amended the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , , regarding its acquisition Junglee Corp. October , , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing its financial results for the third quarter . November , , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing the approval the Board Directors -for- stock split its common stock. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this Report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. AMAZON COM, INC. Date: March , : / / JEFFREY . BEZOS ------------------------------------ Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this Report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities indicated. / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Chairman the Board, President and Chief - -------------------------------------------- Executive Officer (Principal Executive Jeffrey . Bezos Officer) / / JOY . COVEY Chief Financial Officer and Vice President - -------------------------------------------- Finance and Administration (Principal Joy . Covey Financial and Accounting Officer) / / TOM . ALBERG Director - -------------------------------------------- Tom . Alberg / / SCOTT . COOK Director - -------------------------------------------- Scott . Cook / / . JOHN DOERR Director - -------------------------------------------- . John Doerr / / PATRICIA . STONESIFER Director - -------------------------------------------- Patricia . Stonesifer AMAZON COM, INC. SCHEDULE -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS INVENTORY VALUATION ALLOWANCE CHARGED/ BALANCE (CREDITED) INVENTORY BALANCE BEGINNING COSTS DISPOSED END YEAR ENDED PERIOD AND EXPENSES WRITTEN OFF PERIOD ---------- ---------- ------------------- ------------ ---------- ( THOUSANDS) December , ............... $ $ , $( ) $ , ==== ====== ===== ====== December , ............... $ -- $ $ -- $ ==== ====== ===== ====== December , ............... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- ==== ====== ===== ====== INDEX EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Acquisition, Inc. and Junglee Corporation (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Pacific Acquisition, Inc. and Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Registration Rights Agreement entered into May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Junglee Corp. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Telebook, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed September , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Note Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors and Executive Officers (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Incentive Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Investor Rights Agreement, dated June , , and among the Company, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VIII, KPCB Information Sciences Zaibatsu Fund and Jeffrey . Bezos (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between the Company and McConnell Development, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). Lease Agreement, dated April , , and between Bookpages Limited and Amazon com, Inc. and Slough Trading Estate Limited (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended June , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and WRC COM Tower LLC (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). + Junglee Corp. Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed October , ). Lease Agreement, dated December , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and Panattoni Carlsen Rieger. List Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Financial Data Schedule. - --------------- + Executive Compensation Plan Agreemen', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties.................................................. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings........................................... ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders......... PART ', 'item 5. ': "Market for the Registrant' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters......................................... ", 'item 6. ': 'Selected Consolidated Financial Data........................ ', 'item 7. ': "Management' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations................................... ", 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk... ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data................. ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements With Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure.................................... PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant.......... Item . Executive Compensation...................................... Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.................................................. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.............. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ......................................................... Signatures............................................................ PART ITEM . BUSINESS This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based current expectations, estimates and projections about the Company\' industry, management\' beliefs and certain assumptions made management. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Forward-Looking Statements." GENERAL Amazon com, Inc. ("Amazon com" the "Company"), the Internet\' number one book, music and video retailer, opened its virtual doors the Web July . Amazon com, one the most widely known, used and cited commerce sites the Web, offers more than million book, music , video, DVD, computer game and other titles. The Company offers its customers superior shopping experience providing value and high level customer service. Amazon com proven technology leader; has developed electronic commerce innovations such -Click ordering, personalized shopping services and easy- -use search and browse features. Shopping Amazon com fast and safe, incorporating simple ordering system, secure credit card transactions, -mail communication with customers and direct shipping worldwide. The Internet increasingly significant global medium for online commerce. According Forrester Research, the total value goods and services purchased over the Web was $ billion and expected increase $ trillion . Amazon com believes well positioned capitalize this growth. According Media Metrix, approximately % Web users visited Amazon com\' stores December . Amazon com, Amazon , Amazon , Internet Movie Database, Earth\' Biggest Bookstore and -Click are either registered trademarks trademarks Amazon com its affiliates. All other names mentioned herein may trademarks their respective owners. Information contained the Company\' Web sites not deemed part this Annual Report Form - . used herein, "titles" offered the Company means the items offered the Company\' catalogs and includes books, CDs, videotapes, audiotapes and other products. Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated Delaware. The Company\' principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. Amazon com completed its initial public offering May and its common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." BUSINESS STRATEGY The Company\' objective become the best place buy, find and discover any product service available online. Amazon com will continue enhance and broaden its brand, customer base and electronic commerce expertise with the goal creating customers\' preferred online shopping destination, the United States and around the world. AMAZON COM WEB SITES The Company believes that the sale books, music and other products and services over the Web can offer attractive benefits customers, including greater selection, convenience, ease- -use, competitive pricing and personalization. Customers entering Amazon com Web sites can, addition ordering books and other products, purchase gift certificates, conduct targeted searches, browse highlighted selections, view bestseller lists and other features, read and post reviews, register for personalized services, participate promotions and check order status. The key components Amazon com\' offerings include browsing, searching, reviews and content, recommendations and personalization, -Click technology, secure credit card payment and availability and fulfillment. The Company\' Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat purchases providing inviting experience that encourages customers return frequently and interact with other customers. Browsing. The Amazon com sites offer visitors variety highlighted subject areas, styles and special features arranged simple, easy- -use fashion intended enhance product search and selection. addition, the Web sites present variety products and services and topical information. enhance the customers\' shopping experience and increase sales, the Company features variety products and services rotating basis throughout the stores. Searching. primary feature Amazon com Web sites its interactive, searchable catalogs more than million books, music , video, DVD, computer game and other titles. The Company provides selection search tools find books, music, video and other products based keyword, title, subject, author, artist, musical instrument, label, actor, director, publication date ISBN. Customers can also use more complex and precise search tools such Boolean search queries. The Company licenses some its catalog and other information from third parties. Reviews and Content. The Amazon com stores offer numerous forms content enhance the customer\' shopping experience and encourage purchases. Various types content are available for particular titles, including cover art, synopses, annotations, reviews editorial staff and other customers, and interviews authors and artists. Recommendations and Personalization. Amazon com personalizes its product and service offerings. These features include greeting customers name, instant and personalized recommendations, bestseller and chart-topper listings, personal notification services, purchase pattern filtering and number other related features. The Company believes that personalization customer\' shopping experience the Company\' Web sites important element the value proposition offers customers and intends continue enhance its personalized services. -Click Technology. Amazon com provides customers with streamlined ordering process using -Click technology. customer has previously activated -Click functionality, customer can place order clicking one button without having fill out order form. The customer\' shipping and billing information automatically referenced the Company\' secure server. Secure Credit Card Payment. Amazon com utilizes secure server software for secure commerce transactions. encrypts all the customer\' personal information, including credit card number, name and address, that cannot read the information travels over the Internet. Availability and Fulfillment. Many the Company\' products are available for shipment within hours, others are available within two three days and the remainder are generally available within four six weeks, although some products may not available all. Out- -print books generally are available one three months, although some books may not available all. Customers can select from variety delivery options, including overnight and various international shipping options, well gift-wrapping services. The Company uses -mail notify customers order status under various conditions and provides links shipping carriers that the customers can track their shipments. The Company seeks provide rapid and reliable fulfillment customer orders and continue improve its speed availability and fulfillment. Return Policy. Within days following the customer\' receipt their order, Amazon com will provide full refund for any book its original condition, any Amazon com recommended book any condition, any unopened music , DVD, VHS tape software, and any other merchandise item new condition, with its original packaging and accessories. PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION Products. The Company has offered books for sale since July . The Company expanded its product offerings beyond books with the June launch its music store. the third quarter , its first full quarter online music sales, Amazon com became the number one online music seller. November , Amazon com launched its video store and enhanced holiday gift store, offering variety products, including selected personal electronics and toy products. the fourth quarter , its first quarter online video sales, Amazon com became the number one online video seller. The Company plans continue expand its product offerings. Services. Amazon com intends broaden the scope its business with the goal becoming customers\' preferred destination for online shopping. August , Amazon com merged with Sage Enterprises, Inc. ("PlanetAll"), Web-based address book, calendar and reminder service, and Junglee Corp. ("Junglee"), leading provider Web-based virtual database technology, which allows visitors access variety products sold other merchants. The Company plans continue expand its service offerings. Geographic Expansion. April , Amazon com acquired three Internet companies the United Kingdom and Germany. October , the Company -launched two these businesses under the Amazon brand. The Company incorporated Amazon com\' technology and look-and-feel into the European sites, www amazon and www amazon . During the fourth quarter , combined sales the European sites significantly increased over the third quarter, establishing Amazon com the number one online bookseller these markets. For discussion segment and geographic information, see Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. MARKETING AND PROMOTION Amazon com\' marketing strategy designed strengthen the Amazon brand name, increase customer traffic the Amazon com Web sites, build customer loyalty, encourage repeat purchases and develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities. Amazon com creatively applies technology deliver personalized programs and services, well flexible merchandising. The Company employs variety media, business development and promotional methods achieve these goals. The Company also benefits from public relations activities well online and traditional advertising, including radio, television and print media. Associates Program. The Company extends its market presence through its Associates Program, which enables associated Web sites make products available their audiences with order fulfillment Amazon com. Approximately , Web sites have enrolled the Associates Program. Amazon com associates include Yahoo! Inc. ("Yahoo!"), American Online, Inc. ("AOL"), Excite, Inc., Netscape Communications Corporation, GeoCities, Microsoft Corporation and AltaVista Company. Advantage for Books and Music. The Advantage program designed increase the visibility and sales titles from independent publishers, authors, artists and labels. This free program provides the tools and framework ensure their books and music appear more often, more prominently, and with -hour availability throughout Amazon com\' catalogs book, music and other titles. CUSTOMER SERVICE The Company believes that its ability establish and maintain long-term relationships with its customers and encourage repeat visits and purchases depends, part, the strength its customer support and service operations and staff. Furthermore, the Company seeks achieve frequent communication with and feedback from its customers continually improve the Amazon com stores and services. The Company offers number -mail addresses enable customers request information and encourage feedback and suggestions. Users can also contact customer service representatives via telephone hours day, days week. The Company has automated certain the tools used its customer support and service staff and has plans for further enhancements. WAREHOUSING, FULFILLMENT AND DISTRIBUTION The Company sources products from network distributors, publishers, labels and manufacturers. Although the Company carries its own inventory (some which purchased directly from manufacturers), also relies rapid fulfillment from major distributors and wholesalers that carry broad selection titles. The Company purchases majority its products from Ingram Book Group ("Ingram"), Baker & Taylor, Inc. (" & ") and Valley Media, Inc. ("Valley Media"). Ingram the Company\' single largest supplier and accounted for approximately % and approximately % the Company\' inventory purchases and , respectively. The Company utilizes automated interfaces for sorting and organizing its orders enable achieve rapid and economic purchase and delivery terms. For orders that cannot filled from the Company\' inventory, the Company\' proprietary software selects the orders that can filled via electronic interfaces with vendors and forwards the remaining orders its special orders group. Under the Company\' arrangements with distributors, electronically ordered books often are shipped the Company the distributor within hours receipt order from Amazon com. The Company has developed customized information systems and trained dedicated ordering personnel who specialize sourcing out- -print books and other hard- -find products. The Company intends continue developing its distribution infrastructure increase efficiency and support greater customer demand. For example, December , Amazon com leased highly mechanized distribution facility Fernley, Nevada. The new facility, which expected begin operations , should reduce standard shipping times key markets the western United States. The facility will allow the Company increase significantly the number products maintained inventory for rapid shipment customers. TECHNOLOGY The Company has implemented numerous site management, search, customer interaction, recommendation, transaction-processing and fulfillment services and systems using combination its own proprietary technologies and commercially available, licensed technologies. The Company\' current strategy focus its development efforts creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique its business and license acquire commercially developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. The Company uses set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory customer orders and ensuring proper shipment products customers based various ordering criteria. The Company\' transaction- processing systems handle millions items, number different availability statuses, gift-wrapping requests and multiple shipment methods and allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing and charging customer credit cards. Amazon com Web sites also incorporate variety search and database tools. Systems administrators and network managers monitor and operate the Company\' Web sites, network operations and transaction-processing systems. The continued uninterrupted operation the Company\' Web sites and transaction-processing systems essential its business and the job the site operations staff ensure their reliability. The Company uses the services five Internet service providers obtain connectivity the Internet, both domestically and internationally, over multiple dedicated lines. COMPETITION The online commerce market, particularly over the Web, new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music and video industries are intensely competitive. The Company\' current potential competitors include ( ) online booksellers and vendors other products such CDs, videotapes and DVDs, ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines such Yahoo! and AOL, that are involved online commerce either directly collaboration with other retailers, ( ) publishers, distributors and retail vendors books, music, video and other products, including Barnes & Noble, Inc. ("Barnes & Noble"), Bertelsmann ("Bertelsmann") and other large specialty booksellers and media corporations, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and ( ) traditional retailers who currently sell, who may sell, products services through the Internet. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors its market are brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other site content, and reliability and speed fulfillment. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. For example, late , ( ) Bertelsmann announced that purchased % interest Barnes & Noble\' online venture, barnesandnoble com inc., and intends launch online stores several countries, ( ) Barnes & Noble announced its pending acquisition Ingram, currently the Company\' largest single supplier, and ( ) online music retailers CDnow, Inc. and N2K Inc. announced merger. The Company may not able compete successfully against these and future competitors. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company regards its patents, copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical its success, and relies trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with its employees, customers, partners and others protect its proprietary rights. The Company has applied for the registration certain its trademarks and service marks the United States and internationally. addition, the Company has filed . and international patent applications covering certain its proprietary technology. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which the Company\' products and services are made available online. The Company has licensed the past, and expects that may license the future, certain its proprietary rights, such trademarks, technology copyrighted material, third parties. EMPLOYEES December , , the Company employed approximately , employees. The Company also employs independent contractors. None the Company\' employees are represented labor union, and the Company considers its employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel the Company\' industry intense, particularly for software development and other technical staff. The Company believes that its future success will depend part its continued ability attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. have limited operating history. incorporated July and began offering products for sale our Web site July . Accordingly, have relatively short operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. You should consider our prospects light the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered early stage online commerce companies. early-stage online commerce company, have evolving and unpredictable business model, face intense competition, must effectively manage our growth and must respond quickly rapid changes customer demands and industry standards. may not succeed addressing these challenges and risks. have accumulated deficit and anticipate further losses. have incurred significant losses since began doing business. December , , had accumulated deficit $ million. succeed must invest heavily marketing and promotion and developing our product, technology and operating infrastructure. addition, the expenses associated with our recent acquisitions and interest expense related the February issuance our % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the "Convertible Notes") and the May issuance our % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Senior Discount Notes") will adversely affect our operating results. Our aggressive pricing programs have resulted relatively low product gross margins, need generate and sustain substantially higher revenues order become profitable. Although our revenues have grown, cannot sustain our current rate growth. Our percentage growth rate will decrease the future. For these reasons believe that will continue incur substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future, and these losses may significantly higher than our current losses. Unpredictability future revenues; potential fluctuations quarterly operating results; seasonality. Due our limited operating history and the unpredictability our industry, cannot accurately forecast our revenues. base our current and future expense levels our investment plans and estimates future revenues. Our expenses are large extent fixed. may not able adjust our spending quickly our revenues fall short our expectations. Further, may make pricing, purchasing, service, marketing, acquisition financing decisions that could adversely affect our business results. Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate for many reasons, including: - our ability retain existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers\' demand, - our ability acquire merchandise, manage our inventory and fulfill orders, - changes gross margins our current and future products, services and markets, - introduction our new sites, services and products those competitors, - changes usage the Internet and online services and consumer acceptance the Internet and online commerce, - timing upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure, - the level traffic our Web sites, - the effects acquisitions and other business combinations, and related integration, - technical difficulties, system downtime Internet brownouts, - introductions popular books, music selections and other products services, - our level merchandise returns, and - disruptions service common shipping carriers due strikes otherwise. Both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality may affect our business. Internet usage generally declines during the summer. Sales the traditional retail book and music industries usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. For those reasons, you should not rely period- -period comparisons our financial results forecast our future performance. Our future operating results may fall below the expectations securities analysts investors, which would likely cause the trading price our common stock decline. Intense competition. The online commerce market new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music and video industries are intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include ( ) online booksellers and vendors other products such CDs, videotapes and DVDs, ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines, such Yahoo! and AOL, that are involved online commerce either directly collaboration with other retailers, ( ) publishers, distributors and retail vendors books, music, video and other products, including Barnes & Noble, Bertelsmann and other large specialty booksellers and media corporations, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and ( ) traditional retailers who currently sell, who may sell, products services through the Internet. believe that the principal competitive factors our market are brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other site content, and reliability and speed fulfillment. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing inventory policies. They also can devote more resources technology development and marketing than can. also expect experience increased competition from online commerce sites that provide goods and services near cost, relying advertising revenues achieve profitability. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. For example, late , ( ) Bertelsmann announced that purchased % interest Barnes & Noble\' online venture, barnesandnoble com inc., and intends launch online stores several countries, ( ) Barnes & Noble announced its pending acquisition Ingram, currently our largest single supplier, and ( ) online music retailers CDnow, Inc. and N2K Inc. announced merger. may not able compete successfully against these and future competitors. Competition the Internet and online commerce markets probably will intensify. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may use their market power expand into the markets which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies may increase the competitive pressures online retailers. For example, "shopping agent" technologies permit customers quickly compare our prices with those our competitors. This increased competition may reduce our operating margins, diminish our market share impair the value our brand. Risks system interruption. Customers\' access our Web sites directly affects the volume orders fulfill and thus affects our revenues. experience occasional system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. These interruptions will continue. need add additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and network infrastructure accommodate increased traffic our Web sites and increased sales volume. Without these upgrades, face additional system interruptions, slower response times, diminished customer service, impaired quality and speed order fulfillment, and delays our financial reporting. cannot accurately project the rate timing any increases traffic sales volume our Web sites and, therefore, the integration and timing these upgrades are uncertain. maintain substantially all our computer and communications hardware single leased facility Seattle, Washington. Our systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. not have backup systems formal disaster recovery plan and may not have sufficient business interruption insurance compensate for losses from major interruption. Computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins and similar disruptions could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss critical data and could prevent from providing services and accepting and fulfilling customer orders. may have difficulty managing our growth. have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will further expand our operations address potential growth our product and service offerings and customer base. will expand our product and service offerings and our international operations and will pursue other market opportunities. need significantly expand our distribution center network and improve our transaction-processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. This expansion will continue place significant strain our management, operational facilities and financial resources. Because difficult predict sales increases, and lead times for developing distribution centers are long, may over-expand our facilities, which may result excess inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. also need expand, train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel successfully identify, manage and exploit market opportunities, which may limit our growth. Risk entering new business areas. intend expand our operations promoting new complementary products, services sales formats and expanding our product service offerings. This will require significant additional expense and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. cannot expect benefit these new markets from the first- -market advantage that experienced the online book market. Our gross margins these new business areas may lower than our existing business activities. may not able expand our operations cost-effective timely manner. Any new business that our customers not receive favorably could damage our reputation and the Amazon brand. Risk international expansion. plan expand our presence foreign markets. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing and distributing products services for these markets and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. will costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally, and develop localized Web sites and stores and other systems. may not succeed our efforts these countries. revenues from international activities not offset the expense establishing and maintaining foreign operations, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will suffer. the international online commerce market continues grow, competition this market will likely intensify. addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate Internet other online services such areas content, privacy, network security, encryption distribution. This may affect our ability conduct business internationally. Risks business combinations and strategic alliances. may expand our operations market presence entering into business combinations, investments, joint ventures other strategic alliances with other companies. These transactions create risks such : - difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel the combined companies, - disruption our ongoing business, - problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel, - expenses associated with amortization goodwill and other purchased intangible assets, - additional operating losses and expenses acquired businesses, and - impairment relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners. may not succeed addressing these risks. addition, the businesses acquired are incurring operating losses. Rapid technological change. Technology the online commerce industry changes rapidly. Customer functionality requirements and preferences also change. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology obsolete. succeed, must enhance Web site responsiveness, functionality and features, acquire and license leading technologies, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technology and respond technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices cost-effective and timely basis. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and industry standards. depend key personnel. depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board. not have long-term employment agreements with any our key personnel, and not have "key person" life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. rely small number suppliers. purchase majority our products from three major vendors, Ingram, & and Valley Media. late , Barnes & Noble, one our largest competitors, announced agreement purchase Ingram. Ingram our single largest supplier and supplied approximately % our inventory purchases and approximately % our inventory purchases . Although increased our direct purchasing from manufacturers during , continue purchase majority our products from these three suppliers. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. Our current vendors may stop selling merchandise acceptable terms. may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. are highly leveraged. have significant indebtedness. December , , were indebted under our Senior Discount Notes, capitalized lease obligations and other asset financing. With the sale the Convertible Notes February , incurred $ billion additional indebtedness. may incur substantial additional debt the future. Our indebtedness could: - make difficult make principal and interest payments the Senior Discount Notes and the Convertible Notes, - make difficult obtain necessary financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements other purposes, - limit our flexibility planning for, reacting , changes our business and competition, and - make more difficult for react the event economic downturn. may not able meet our debt service obligations. our cash flow inadequate meet our obligations, may face substantial liquidity problems. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with other covenants our indebtedness, will default. This would permit our creditors accelerate the maturity our indebtedness. Risks associated with domain names. hold rights various Web domain names, including "Amazon com," "Amazon " and "Amazon ." Governmental agencies typically regulate domain names. These regulations are subject change. may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Governmental regulation and legal uncertainties. this time, face general business regulations and laws regulations regarding taxation and access online commerce. For example, expanding our distribution center network may result additional sales and other tax obligations. Regulatory authorities may adopt specific laws and regulations governing the Internet online commerce. These regulations may cover taxation, user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution and characteristics and quality products and services. Changes consumer protection laws also may impose additional burdens companies conducting business online. These laws regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. Moreover, not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply the Internet and online commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. Risks uncertain protection intellectual property. Third parties that license our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patented technology copyrighted material, may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. addition, the steps take protect our proprietary rights may not adequate and third parties may infringe misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that infringed their proprietary rights. have been subject claims, and expect subject legal proceedings and claims, regarding alleged infringement and our licensees the trademarks and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, even not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Risks Year non-compliance. have developed plan modify our information technology recognize the year and have begun converting our critical data processing systems. have initiated formal communications with our significant suppliers and service providers determine the extent which our systems may vulnerable they fail address and correct their own Year issues. cannot guarantee that the systems suppliers other companies which rely will Year compliant. Their failure convert their systems could disrupt our systems. addition, the computer systems necessary maintain the viability the Internet any the Web sites that direct consumers our online stores may not Year compliant. Finally, computers used our customers access our online stores may not Year compliant, delaying our customers\' purchases our products. are the process developing formal contingency plan. cannot guarantee that our systems will Year compliant that the Year problem will not adversely affect our business, which includes limiting precluding customer purchases. Our stock price highly volatile. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. For example, during the -week period ended February , ( adjusted for our -for- split our common stock effected June , and -for- split our common stock effected January , ), the reported closing price the common stock the Nasdaq National Market was high $ and low $ per share. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : - quarterly variations operating results, - announcements innovations, - new products, services and strategic developments our competitors, - business combinations and investments our competitors, - changes our operating expense levels losses, - changes financial estimates and recommendations securities analysts, - performance other online commerce companies, and - news reports relating trends the Internet, book, music, video other product service industries. Any these events may cause our stock price fall, which may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. addition, the stock market general and the market prices for Internet-related companies particular have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated the operating performance such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price the common stock, regardless our operating performance. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS The following tables set forth certain information regarding the executive officers and Directors the Company February , : EXECUTIVE OFFICERS NAME AGE POSITION ---- --- -------- Jeffrey . Bezos........................... President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Joy . Covey............................... Chief Financial Officer and Vice President Finance and Administration Richard . Dalzell......................... Vice President and Chief Information Officer Sheldon . Kaphan.......................... Vice President and Chief Technology Officer John . Risher............................. Senior Vice President Product Development Kavitark . Shriram........................ Vice President Business Development Jimmy . Wright............................ Vice President and Chief Logistics Officer JEFFREY . BEZOS. . Bezos has been President and Chairman the Board the Company since founding , and Chief Executive Officer since May , and served Treasurer and Secretary from May March . From December June , . Bezos was employed . Shaw & ., Wall Street investment firm, becoming Senior Vice President . From April December , . Bezos was employed Bankers Trust Company, becoming Vice President February . . Bezos received his . Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Summa Cum Laude, from Princeton University. JOY . COVEY. . Covey joined the Company December Chief Financial Officer and Vice President Finance and Administration, and served Secretary from March February . . Covey also served Treasurer the Company from March February . From June February , . Covey served Vice President, Operations the Broadcast Division Avid Technology, Inc. ("Avid"), developer digital media systems, and from January June , . Covey served Vice President Business Development for Avid. From July January , . Covey served Chief Financial Officer Digidesign, Inc., developer random access digital audio systems and software. Prior that, she was associate Wasserstein Perella & ., and certified public accountant Ernst & Young LLP. . Covey received her . Business Administration, Summa Cum Laude, from California State University, Fresno, her ., With High Distinction, from Harvard Business School and her ., Magna Cum Laude, from Harvard Law School. She Certified Public Accountant and member the California State Bar. RICHARD . DALZELL. . Dalzell joined the Company August Vice President and Chief Information Officer. From February August , . Dalzell held several management positions within the Information Systems Division Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., including Vice President Information Systems from January August . From , . Dalzell acted the Business Development Manager for -Systems, Inc. Prior joining -Systems, Inc. served seven years the United States Army teleprocessing officer. . Dalzell received . Engineering from the United States Military Academy, West Point. SHELDON . KAPHAN. . Kaphan has served the Company\' Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since March . From October March , . Kaphan served Vice President Research and Development the Company. From October July , . Kaphan served senior engineer Kaleida Labs Inc., multimedia joint venture between Apple Computer Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. . Kaphan received his . Mathematics from the University California, Santa Cruz. JOHN . RISHER. . Risher joined the Company February Vice President Product Development. . Risher was promoted Senior Vice President Product Development November . From July February , . Risher held variety marketing and project management positions Microsoft Corporation, including Team Manager for Microsoft Access and Founder and Product Unit Manager for Investor, Microsoft\' Web site for personal investment. . Risher received his . Comparative Literature, Magna Cum Laude, from Princeton University and his . from Harvard Business School. KAVITARK . SHRIRAM. . Shriram joined the Company August and was named Vice President Business Development October . From May August , . Shriram served President and Chief Operating Officer Junglee Corp. From November July , . Shriram held several positions Netscape Communications Corporation, most recently Vice President OEM and WebSite Sales. From , . Shriram served director global channel sales Network Computing Devices, Inc. . Shriram holds . from the University Madras, India and . from the University Michigan. JIMMY . WRIGHT. . Wright joined the Company July Vice President and Chief Logistics Officer. From , . Wright held variety logistics management positions with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., most recently Vice President Distribution. Additionally, during , . Wright served managing partner Diversified Retail Solutions, ., retail consulting firm. From , . Wright held variety positions Fina Oil and Chemical Company, branch Petrofina . based Brussels, most recently General Manager Distribution. . Wright received his . personnel management from the University Texas. BOARD DIRECTORS NAME AGE ---- --- Jeffrey . Bezos........................... Chairman the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer the Company Tom . Alberg.............................. Principal Madrona Investment Group, . Scott . Cook.............................. Founder and Chairman the Executive Committee Intuit, Inc. . John Doerr.............................. General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Patricia . Stonesifer..................... Chairman the Gates Learning Foundation and Former Senior Vice President the Interactive Media Division Microsoft Corporation ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company\' principal office facilities located the United States currently total approximately , square feet and are located Seattle, Washington under leases that expire June through April . The Company also recently leased office building approximately , square feet Seattle, Washington under lease that expires . The Company will occupy the office building . The Company\' warehousing and fulfillment operations are housed approximately , -square-foot facility Seattle, Washington under lease that expires October , and approximately , -square-foot facility located New Castle, Delaware under lease that expires October . December , the Company leased approximately , -square-foot distribution facility Fernley, Nevada under lease that expires . The facility expected begin operations . The Company has additional properties Europe. The German subsidiary\' headquarters and distribution center, located Regensburg, Germany, total approximately , square feet, under leases that expire December and . The editorial and marketing offices Germany are approximately , square feet and are located Munich under lease that expires . The headquarter offices and distribution center the . subsidiary total approximately , square feet and are located Slough, England under lease that expires . The Company does not own any real estate December , . Additionally, the Company anticipates that will require additional office space within the next months. There can assurance that suitable additional space will available commercially reasonable terms. The Company intends establish one more additional distribution centers within the next months, which would require commit lease obligations, stock inventories, purchase fixed assets, hire and train employees and install leasehold improvements. addition, the Company has announced plans continue developing distribution infrastructure increase efficiency and support greater customer demand, well increase its inventory provide better availability customers and achieve purchasing efficiencies. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Intimate Bookshop. August , The Intimate Bookshop and Wallace Kuralt filed lawsuit the United States District Court for the Southern District New York against the Company, Barnes & Noble, Borders Group, Inc. and others alleging antitrust, unfair competition and related claims under the Robinson-Patman Act, the Clayton Act, the Donnelly Act and certain New York state statutes and common law. The complaint was thereafter amended drop the class action allegations and certain claims. claim for unfair competition was added. The plaintiffs requested the following relief: actual damages approximately $ million, treble damages, injunctive relief, punitive damages, pre- and postjudgment interest, attorneys\' fees and costs. Amazon com understands that the plaintiffs filed voluntary dismissal this action, with prejudice, March , . Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. October , Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Wal-Mart") filed lawsuit Bentonville, Arkansas against the Company and other defendants alleging actual and threatened misappropriation trade secrets and ancillary common-law claims. Wal-Mart subsequently requested temporary restraining order preventing the defendants from misappropriating Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets, from placing employees positions which they would "inevitably disclose" Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets and from soliciting, inducing recruiting Wal-Mart employees. January , Wal-Mart filed identical action Seattle, Washington, and the Arkansas court dismissed Wal-Mart\' action jurisdictional grounds before deciding the temporary restraining order. The dismissal pending appeal. Wal-Mart has advised the Company that will file preliminary injunction motion. addition injunctive relief, Wal-Mart has requested compensatory damages, pre- and postjudgment interest and attorneys\' fees and costs. The Company believes that Wal-Mart\' claims are without merit and intends vigorously defend against the plaintiffs\' claims. Amazon com has filed counterclaim based part unfair competition and intentional interference. Litigation inherently uncertain, and there can assurance that the Company will prevail the lawsuit. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted for vote stockholders the Company during the fourth quarter the year ended December , . PART ITEM . MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT\' COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Market Information The common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. HIGH LOW ------- ------ Year ended December , Second Quarter (from May )............................ $ $ Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... Year ended December , First Quarter........................................... Second Quarter.......................................... Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... The prices this table have been adjusted reflect the -for- stock split effected June , and the -for- stock split effected January , . Holders February , there were , stockholders record the common stock, although there are larger number beneficial owners. Dividends The Company has never declared paid cash dividends its common stock. The Company intends retain all future earnings finance future growth and, therefore, does not anticipate paying any cash dividends the foreseeable future. addition, the Company restricted from paying cash dividends under the Senior Discount Notes. Changes Securities None. Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. ITEM . SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and the information contained herein Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations." Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. PERIOD FROM JULY , YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , (INCEPTION) -------------------------------------------- DECEMBER , --------- -------- -------- ------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) STATEMENT OPERATIONS DATA ( ): Net sales.................................. $ , $ , $ , $ $ -- Cost sales.............................. , , , -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Gross profit............................... , , , -- Operating expenses: Marketing and sales...................... , , , -- Product development...................... , , , General and administrative............... , , , Merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles............ , -- -- -- -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Total operating expenses.......... , , , --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Loss from operations....................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( ) Interest income............................ , , -- Interest expense........................... ( , ) ( ) ( ) -- -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Net interest income (expense)..... ( , ) , -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Net loss................................... $( , ) $( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======== ======= ======= Basic and diluted loss per share ( )....... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======== ======= ======= Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share ( )............... , , , , , ========= ======== ======== ======= ======= DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------------------------- --------- -------- -------- ------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) BALANCE SHEET DATA ( ): Cash....................................... $ , $ , $ $ $ Marketable securities...................... , , , -- Working capital (deficiency)............... , , , ( ) Total assets............................... , , , , Long-term debt............................. , , -- -- -- Stockholders\' equity....................... , , , - --------------- ( ) Reflects restatement for pooling interests. See Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ( ) For further discussion loss per share see Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM . MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . This Act provides "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements encourage companies provide prospective information about themselves long they identify these statements forward looking and provide meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results differ from the projected results. All statements other than statements historical fact made this Annual Report Form - are forward looking. particular, the statements herein regarding industry prospects and future results operations financial position are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\' current expectations and are inherently uncertain. The Company\' actual results may differ significantly from management\' expectations. The following discussion and the section entitled "Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results" describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause these differences. RESULTS OPERATIONS Net Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Net sales..................... $ , % $ , % $ , Net sales are composed the selling price books, music and other products and services sold the Company, net returns, well outbound shipping and handling charges. Growth net sales and reflects significant increase units sold due the growth the Company\' customer base and repeat purchases from the Company\' existing customers. The Company had approximately million and million cumulative customer accounts December , and , respectively. Repeat customer orders accounted for over % orders placed the Amazon com Web site during the fiscal year ended December , . Additionally, the increase net sales was partially due the opening the music store June , the United Kingdom and German stores October and the video store November . International sales, including export sales from the United States, represented approximately %, % and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. Although there can assurances, the Company does not expect the introduction the Euro resulting from the European Monetary Union significantly impact our competitive position operations. Gross Profit % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Gross profit.................... $ , % $ , % $ , Gross margin.................... % % % Gross profit consists sales less the cost sales, which consists the cost merchandise sold customers, well outbound and inbound shipping costs. Gross profit increased and absolute dollars, reflecting the Company\' increased sales volume. Gross margin increased result improvements product costs through improved supply chain management, including increased direct purchasing from publishers, which together more than offset the impact aggressive product pricing and lower music and video margins. Gross margin decreased due combination lower prices and lower overall shipping margins, partially offset improvements product cost. The Company believes that offering its customers attractive prices essential component its business strategy. Accordingly, the Company offers everyday discounts % hundreds thousands titles and certain "special value" editions discounted %. The Company may the future expand increase the discounts offers its customers and may otherwise alter its pricing structure and policies. The Company over time intends expand its operations promoting new complementary products sales formats and expanding the breadth and depth its product and service offerings. Gross margins attributable new business areas may lower than those associated with the Company\' existing business activities. particular, June the Company launched its new music store and November launched video store. Music and video gross margins are lower than book gross margins. the extent music and video become larger portion the Company\' product mix, expected have proportionate impact overall product gross margin. Marketing and Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Marketing and sales............. $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales......... % % % Marketing and sales expenses consist primarily advertising, promotional and public relations expenditures, well payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, selling and fulfillment activities. All fulfillment costs not included cost sales, including the cost operating and staffing distribution centers and customer service, are included marketing and sales. The Company expects its costs fulfillment increase based primarily anticipated sales growth and its planned distribution network expansion. Marketing and sales expenses increased and primarily due increases the Company\' advertising and promotional expenditures, increased payroll and related costs associated with fulfilling customer demand and increased credit card fees resulting from higher sales. The increase was also attributable the entry into music and video sales and the launch new stores Germany and the United Kingdom. Marketing and sales expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. The Company intends continue pursue its aggressive branding and marketing campaign, which includes radio, television and print advertising and significant expenditures for online promotion and advertising relationships. addition, the Company intends increase investments marketing, promotion and fulfillment activities related its product, service and international expansion. result the foregoing, the Company expects marketing and sales expenses increase significantly absolute dollars. Product Development % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Product development.............. $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales.......... % % % Product development expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs acquired content, including freelance reviews. The increases product development expenses and were primarily attributable increased staffing and costs related continual feature, content and functionality enhancements the Company\' Web sites and transaction-processing systems, well increased investment systems and telecommunications infrastructure. Such increases included investments associated with the entry into music and video sales, the launch enhanced holiday gift store, new stores Germany and the United Kingdom and operating expenses associated with the acquired entities. Product development expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. date, product development costs have been expensed incurred. The Company believes that continued investment product development critical attaining its strategic objectives. addition ongoing investments its Web stores and infrastructure, the Company intends increase investments products, services and international expansion. result, the Company expects product development expenses increase significantly absolute dollars. General and Administrative % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) General and administrative........ $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales........... % % % General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. The and increases general and administrative expenses were primarily result increased salaries and related expenses associated with the hiring additional personnel and legal and other professional fees related the Company\' growth. , additional expenses were incurred associated with the acquired entities and the related international expansion and expanded activities. Beginning , general and administrative costs have included costs attributable being public company. General and administrative expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. The Company expects general and administrative expenses increase absolute dollars the Company expands its staff and incurs additional costs related the growth its business, including investments associated with products, services and international expansion. Merger and Acquisition Related Costs, Including Amortization Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangibles Merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles, were approximately $ million % net sales . These costs were recorded connection with the Company\' April acquisitions three Internet companies and its August acquisition Junglee. These acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method accounting. Additionally, certain transaction costs were incurred connection with the August merger with PlanetAll, which was accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. Merger and acquisition related costs consist amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles approximately $ million, well approximately $ million, composed primarily equity loss investee and other merger and acquisition related costs. The Company anticipates that future amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles associated with its acquisitions will continue amortized straight-line basis over lives approximately three years, and will amount approximately $ million per quarter until March and approximately $ million per quarter thereafter until the related goodwill and other purchased intangibles are fully amortized. likely that the Company will continue expand its business through acquisitions and internal development. Any additional acquisitions impairment goodwill and other purchased intangibles, well equity losses equity investees, could result additional merger and acquisition related costs. Interest Income and Expense % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ---- ( THOUSANDS) Interest income..................... $ , % $ , % $ Interest expense.................... ( , ) ( ) ( ) Interest income cash and marketable securities increased due higher investment balances resulting from the proceeds from the Senior Discount Notes issued May , and due higher investment balances resulting from the proceeds the Company\' initial public offering May . Interest expense includes interest and amortization deferred charges related the Senior Discount Notes. Interest expense and consists interest and amortization deferred charges related the Company\' $ million three-year senior secured term loan (the "Senior Loan") entered into December , well asset acquisitions financed through loans and capital leases. , interest expense also includes the write-off $ million unamortized loan fees following prepayment the Senior Loan May . The Company expects interest expense increase the future result the Senior Discount Notes, the Convertible Notes and potentially increased financing asset acquisitions through loans and capital leases. The Company also expects interest income increase because higher cash balances resulting from the net proceeds the Convertible Notes. Income Taxes The Company did not provide any current deferred . federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because has experienced operating losses since inception. Utilization the Company\' net operating loss carryforwards, which begin expire , may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended. The Company has provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. PRO FORMA INFORMATION April , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock three Internet companies. Each the acquisitions was accounted for under the purchase method accounting. The aggregate purchase price the three acquisitions, plus related charges, was approximately $ million. The consideration for the acquisitions was comprised common stock and cash. The Company issued aggregate approximately million shares common stock affect the transactions. The Company amortizing the goodwill resulting from the acquisitions straight-line basis over approximately two years. August , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock Junglee. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options and warrants connection with the acquisition Junglee. The Junglee acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method accounting, with substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. August , the Company exchanged common stock and options for all the outstanding capital stock PlanetAll. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options connection with the merger. The PlanetAll merger was accounted for pooling interests and, result, the Company\' consolidated financial statements have been restated for all periods presented. December , , the Company has investment approximately % drugstore com, inc., online drugstore, that accounted for under the equity method accounting. Under the equity method accounting, the Company\' share the investee\' earnings loss included consolidated operating results. The Company\' basis its equity investment classified within other purchased intangibles the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the Company\' share the investee\' loss classified merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles. date, this investment has not materially impacted the Company\' results operations its financial position. Pro forma information regarding the Company\' results, excluding approximately $ million merger and acquisition related costs, which include amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles, for the business combinations discussed above, well the Company\' share losses from its investee, follows: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------- ( THOUSANDS) Pro forma loss from operations.............................. $( , ) Pro forma net loss.......................................... $( , ) Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share.................. $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share..................................................... , The pro forma results for the year ended December , are presented for informational purposes only and are not prepared accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES December , , the Company\' cash was $ million, compared $ million December , . Marketable securities balances, which include highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, were $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Net cash provided operating activities $ million and $ , for the years ended December , and , respectively, was primarily attributable increases accounts payable, other liabilities and accrued expenses, accrued advertising and non-cash expenses, largely offset the net loss and increases inventories and prepaid expenses and other. Net cash used investing activities was $ million for the year ended December , and consisted net purchases marketable securities, purchases fixed assets, and acquisitions, dispositions and investments businesses. For the year ended December , , net cash used investing activities was $ million and consisted net purchases marketable securities and purchases fixed assets. Net cash provided financing activities $ million for the year ended December , resulted from net proceeds approximately $ million from the Senior Discount Notes offering, net proceeds approximately $ million from PlanetAll\' issuance capital stock, and proceeds from the exercise stock options $ million, partially offset the repayment the Senior Loan. Net cash provided financing activities $ million for the year ended December , resulted primarily from net proceeds from the Senior Loan, the Company\' initial public offering and PlanetAll\' issuance capital stock. December , , the Company\' principal sources liquidity consisted $ million cash and marketable securities. that date, the Company\' principal commitments consisted obligations outstanding under its Senior Discount Notes, obligations connection with the acquisition fixed assets, operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements. The Company anticipates substantial increase its capital expenditures and lease commitments consistent with anticipated growth operations, infrastructure and personnel, including growth associated with product and service offerings, geographic expansion and integration business combinations. For example, August , the Company entered into long-term office lease, which will result increased lease obligations commencing , and, December , the Company leased highly mechanized distribution facility Fernley, Nevada, which expected begin operations . Bringing these facilities operational readiness will require significant leasehold improvement and capital expenditures, and require the Company stock inventories, purchase fixed assets and hire and train employees. The Company intends establish one more additional distribution centers within the next months, which would require commit lease obligations, stock inventories, purchase fixed assets, hire and train employees and install leasehold improvements. addition, the Company has announced plans continue developing distribution infrastructure increase efficiency and support greater customer demand and increase its inventory provide better availability customers and achieve purchasing efficiencies. Senior Discount Notes May , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds the Senior Discount Notes. Pursuant registration statement Form - , September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Exchange Notes"), which were registered under the Securities Act , amended (the "Securities Act"), for all outstanding Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout this Annual Report interchangeably with the Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the original Senior Discount Notes (the "Senior Notes Indenture"). The Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the $ million aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest the rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Senior Notes Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. Upon Change Control ( defined the Senior Notes Indenture), the Company would required make offer purchase the Senior Discount Notes purchase price equal % their Accreted Value the date purchase, plus accrued interest, any. There can assurance that the Company would have sufficient funds available the time any Change Control make any required debt repayment (including repurchases the Senior Discount Notes). The Senior Notes Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries ( defined the Senior Notes Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all financial covenants December , . Convertible Subordinated Notes February , the Company completed offering approximately $ billion the Convertible Notes. Interest payments the Convertible Notes % per annum are due and payable semiannually arrears cash February and August each year, commencing August , . The Convertible Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness defined the indenture governing the Convertible Notes (the "Convertible Notes Indenture"). The Convertible Notes are generally convertible into common stock the Company, unless redeemed repaid prior maturity, conversion price $ per share. The Convertible Notes may redeemed the Company (the "Provisional Redemption"), whole part, any time prior February , , redemption price equal $ , per Convertible Note redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, any, the date redemption (the "Provisional Redemption Date") ( ) the closing price the common stock shall have exceeded % the conversion price then effect for least trading days any consecutive -trading day period and ( ) the shelf registration statement covering resales the Convertible Notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion the Convertible Notes effective and available for use and expected remain effective and available for use for the days following the Provisional Redemption Date. Upon any Provisional Redemption, the Company will make additional payment cash with respect the Convertible Notes called for redemption amount equal $ per $ , Convertible Note, less the amount any interest actually paid such Convertible Note prior the call for redemption. The Company must make these payments all the Convertible Notes called for redemption, including Convertible Notes called after the date the call for redemption. After February , , the Convertible Notes will redeemable least days\' notice the option the Company, whole part, any time, the redemption prices set forth the Convertible Notes Indenture. Upon occurrence any Fundamental Change ( defined the Convertible Notes Indenture) prior the maturity the Convertible Notes, each holder the Convertible Notes has the right require the Company redeem all any part the holder\' Convertible Notes price equal % the principal amount, plus any accrued interest, the Convertible Notes being redeemed. The Company will, for the benefit the holders, file with the Securities and Exchange Commission soon practicable, but any event within days after the first date original issuance the Convertible Notes, shelf registration statement covering resales the Convertible Notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion the Convertible Notes. The Company has may use the net proceeds from the offering the Convertible Notes for general corporate purposes, including working capital fund anticipated operating losses, the expansion the Company\' core business, investments new business segments and markets, capital expenditures, acquisitions investments complementary businesses, products and technologies and repurchases and retirement debt. The Company believes that current cash and marketable securities balances, together with net proceeds from the Convertible Notes, will sufficient meet its anticipated cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. current cash, marketable securities and cash that may generated from operations are insufficient satisfy the Company\' liquidity requirements, the Company may seek sell additional equity debt securities obtain line credit. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities could result additional dilution the Company\' stockholders. addition, the Company will, from time time, consider the acquisition investment complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the repurchase and retirement debt, which might impact the Company\' liquidity requirements cause the Company issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that financing will available amounts terms acceptable the Company, all. YEAR IMPLICATIONS Many current installed computer systems and software may coded accept only two-digit entries the date code field and cannot distinguish 21st century dates from 20th century dates. result, many software and computer systems may need upgraded replaced. The Company the process assessing the Year issue and expects complete the program the second quarter . The Company has not incurred material costs date the process, and does not believe that the cost additional actions will have material effect its operating results financial condition. However, the Company has established budget totaling approximately $ million for the acquisition contract software services that will assist the Year assessment and remediation activities completed later than the third quarter . Amazon com\' current systems and products may contain undetected errors defects with Year date functions that may result material costs. addition, the Company utilizes third-party equipment, software and content, including non-information technology systems, such security systems, building equipment and embedded micro-controllers that may not Year compliant. The Company the process developing plan assess whether its internally developed software, third-party systems and non-information technology systems are adequately addressing the Year issue. Failure third-party equipment, software content operate properly with regard the Year issue could require the Company incur unanticipated expenses remedy problems, which could have material adverse effect its business, operating results and financial condition. Amazon com assessing whether third parties its supply and distribution chain are adequately addressing their Year compliance issues. The Company has initiated formal communications with its significant suppliers and service providers determine the extent which its systems may vulnerable such suppliers and providers fail address and correct their own Year issues. The Company cannot guarantee that the systems suppliers other companies which the Company relies will Year compliant. The Company the process developing contingency plan that will address situations that may result should Year compliance for critical operations not fully achieved . ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company does not have any derivative financial instruments December , . However, the Company exposed interest rate risk. The Company employs established policies and procedures manage its exposure changes the market risk its marketable securities, which are classified available-for-sale December , . The Company\' Senior Discount Notes, Convertible Notes and other long-term debt have fixed interest rates and the fair value these instruments affected changes market interest rates. The Company believes that the market risk arising from holdings its financial instruments not material. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources." The table below provides information about the Company\' marketable securities, including principal cash flows for through and the related weighted average interest rates. Principal (notional) amounts expected maturity . dollars ( thousands): ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE DECEMBER , THEREAFTER TOTAL -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ---------- -------- -------------- Commercial paper and short-term obligations...................... $ , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate..... % % Corporate notes and bonds.......... , , -- -- -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate..... % % % Asset-backed and agency securities....................... -- , , , , , , , Weighted average interest rate..... % % % % % % Treasury notes and bonds........... , , , , -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate..... % % % % % -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- Total Portfolio, excluding equity securities............ $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ======== ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= ======== ======== ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE ---- Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors........... Consolidated Balance Sheets................................. Consolidated Statements Operations....................... Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity............. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows....................... Notes Consolidated Financial Statements.................. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item ( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. ERNST & YOUNG LLP Seattle, Washington January , , except for Note which the date February , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) ASSETS DECEMBER , -------------------- -------- -------- Current assets: Cash...................................................... $ , $ , Marketable securities..................................... , , Inventories............................................... , , Prepaid expenses and other................................ , , -------- -------- Total current assets.............................. , , Fixed assets, net........................................... , , Deposits and other.......................................... Goodwill and other purchased intangibles, net............... , -- Deferred charges............................................ , , -------- -------- Total assets...................................... $ , $ , ======== ======== LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable.......................................... $ , $ , Accrued advertising....................................... , , Other liabilities and accrued expenses.................... , , Current portion long-term debt......................... , -------- -------- Total current liabilities......................... , , Long-term debt.............................................. , , Long-term portion capital lease obligation............... Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , Issued and outstanding shares -- none..................... -- -- Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , Issued and outstanding shares -- , and , shares and , respectively.................. , , Additional paid- capital.................................. , , Note receivable from officer for common stock............... ( , ) -- Deferred compensation....................................... ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income...................... , -- Accumulated deficit......................................... ( , ) ( , ) -------- -------- Total stockholders\' equity........................ , , -------- -------- Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity........ $ , $ , ======== ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------------------- --------- -------- -------- Net sales................................................. $ , $ , $ , Cost sales............................................. , , , --------- -------- -------- Gross profit......................................... , , , Operating expenses: Marketing and sales..................................... , , , Product development..................................... , , , General and administrative.............................. , , , Merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles.......................................... , -- -- --------- -------- -------- Total operating expenses........................ , , , --------- -------- -------- Loss from operations...................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest income........................................... , , Interest expense.......................................... ( , ) ( ) ( ) --------- -------- -------- Net interest income (expense)........................ ( , ) , --------- -------- -------- Net loss.................................................. $( , ) $( , ) $ ( , ) ========= ======== ======== Basic and diluted loss per share.......................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======== Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................................... , , , ========= ======== ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( THOUSANDS) PREFERRED ADVANCES NOTE RECEIVABLE STOCK COMMON STOCK RECEIVED FOR ADDITIONAL FROM OFFICER --------------- ---------------- COMMON PAID- FOR DEFERRED SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT STOCK CAPITAL COMMON STOCK COMPENSATION ------ ------ ------- ------ ------------ ---------- --------------- ------------ Balance January , .................... -- $-- , $ , $ $ -- $ -- $ -- Net loss................ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Reincorporation Delaware.............. -- -- -- ( ) -- -- -- Sale preferred stock, net $ issuance costs................. -- -- -- , -- -- Sale common stock.... -- -- , ( ) -- -- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- -- -- -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , -- -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ---- -- ------- ------ ---- -------- ------- ------- Balance December , .................... , -- , -- ( ) Net loss................ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Sale preferred stock................. -- -- -- -- -- -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs................. -- -- , -- , -- -- Conversion preferred stock into common stock................. ( ) ( ) , -- ( ) -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued product development........... -- -- , -- , -- -- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , -- , -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , -- -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) -- , ---- -- ------- ------ ---- -------- ------- ------- Balance December , .................... -- -- , , -- , -- ( , ) Net loss................ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation losses.... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Unrealized gain marketable securities............ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Comprehensive loss....... Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , -- , -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , -- , -- -- Note receivable from officer for common stock................. -- -- -- -- -- -- ( , ) -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- , ---- -- ------- ------ ---- -------- ------- ------- Balance December , .................... -- $-- , $ , $ -- $ , $( , ) $( , ) ==== == ======= ====== ==== ======== ======= ======= ACCUMULATED OTHER TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE ACCUMULATED STOCKHOLDERS\' INCOME DEFICIT EQUITY ------------- ----------- ------------- Balance January , .................... $ -- $ ( ) $ Net loss................ -- ( , ) ( , ) Reincorporation Delaware.............. -- -- -- Sale preferred stock, net $ issuance costs................. -- -- , Sale common stock.... -- -- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- ------ --------- --------- Balance December , .................... -- ( , ) , Net loss................ -- ( , ) ( , ) Sale preferred stock................. -- -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs................. -- -- , Conversion preferred stock into common stock................. -- -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued product development........... -- -- , Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , Exercise common stock options............... -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- , ------ --------- --------- Balance December , .................... -- ( , ) , --------- Net loss................ -- ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation losses.... ( ) -- ( ) Unrealized gain marketable securities............ , -- , --------- Comprehensive loss....... ( , ) --------- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , Note receivable from officer for common stock................. -- -- ( , ) Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- , ------ --------- --------- Balance December , .................... $ , $( , ) $ , ====== ========= ========= See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( THOUSANDS) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------------------- --------- --------- ------- OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net loss.................................................. $( , ) $ ( , ) $( , ) Adjustments reconcile net loss net cash provided (used ) operating activities: Depreciation and amortization........................... , , Amortization deferred compensation related stock options.............................................. , , -- Non-cash merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles.......................................... , -- -- Non-cash interest expense............................... , -- Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories............................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Prepaid expenses and other.............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Deposits and other...................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable........................................ , , , Accrued advertising..................................... , , Other liabilities and accrued expenses.................. , , , --------- --------- ------- Net cash provided (used ) operating activities..... , ( , ) INVESTING ACTIVITIES Maturities marketable securities....................... , , -- Purchases marketable securities........................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisitions, dispositions, and investments businesses.............................................. ( , ) -- -- --------- --------- ------- Net cash used investing activities........... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net proceeds from initial public offering................. -- , -- Proceeds from exercise stock options................... , Proceeds from issuance capital stock................... , , , Proceeds from long-term debt.............................. , , -- Repayment long-term debt............................... ( , ) ( ) -- Financing costs........................................... ( , ) ( , ) -- --------- --------- ------- Net cash provided financing activities....... , , , Effect exchange rate changes........................... ( ) -- -- --------- --------- ------- Net increase cash...................................... , , Cash beginning period............................... , --------- --------- ------- Cash end period..................................... $ , $ , $ ========= ========= ======= SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION Common stock issued connection with acquisitions....... $ , $ -- $ -- Common stock issued for fixed assets and accrued product development............................................. $ -- $ , $ -- Fixed assets acquired under capital lease................. $ -- $ $ -- Fixed assets acquired under financing agreement........... $ -- $ , $ -- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE -- ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Inc. ("Amazon com" the "Company"), Internet retailer, was incorporated July and opened its virtual doors the Web July . Amazon com offers book, music , video, DVD, computer game and other titles its Web sites. Business Combinations and Investments For business combinations which have been accounted for under the purchase method accounting, the Company includes the results operations the acquired business from the date acquisition. Net assets the companies acquired are recorded their fair value the date acquisition. The excess the purchase price over the fair value net assets acquired included goodwill and other purchased intangibles the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Other business combinations are accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. such cases, the assets, liabilities and stockholders\' equity the acquired entities are combined with the Company\' respective accounts recorded values. The consolidated financial statements reflect the restatement all periods presented include the accounts merged entities accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. The historical results the pooled entities reflect each their actual operating cost structures and, result, not necessarily reflect the cost structure the newly combined entity. The historical results not purport indicative future results. Investments affiliated entities which the Company has the ability exercise significant influence investee, generally % greater ownership interest the voting stock, are accounted for under the equity method accounting. Under the equity method accounting, the Company\' share the investee\' earnings loss included consolidated operating results. All other investments, for which the Company does not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method accounting. Dividends and other distributions earnings from other investees, any, are included income when declared. The Company periodically evaluates the carrying value its investments accounted for under the cost method accounting and December , , such investments were recorded the lower cost estimated net realizable value. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities and disclosure contingent assets and liabilities the date the financial statements and the reported amounts revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Marketable Securities The Company\' marketable securities consist primarily high-quality short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds, are classified available-for-sale and are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reported, net taxes, component AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) stockholders\' equity within accumulated other comprehensive income. Unrealized losses are charged against income when decline fair value determined other than temporary. The specific identification method used determine the cost securities sold. The Company classifies all investments cash marketable securities, including highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, and reflects the related cash flows investing cash flows. result the classification highly liquid investments within marketable securities, significant portion the Company\' gross marketable securities purchases and maturities disclosed investing cash flows related highly liquid investments. Inventories Inventories are valued the lower cost market. The Company purchases majority its products from three major vendors, Ingram Book Group ("Ingram"), Baker & Taylor, Inc. and Valley Media Inc. late , Barnes & Noble announced agreement purchase Ingram. Ingram the Company\' single largest supplier and accounted for approximately % and approximately % the Company\' inventory purchases and , respectively. The Company does not have long-term contracts arrangements with most its vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. The Company\' current vendors may stop selling merchandise the Company acceptable terms. The Company may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally one ten years). Fixed assets purchased under capital leases are amortized straight-line basis over the lesser the estimated useful life the asset the lease term. Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangibles Goodwill and other purchased intangibles represent the excess the purchase price over the fair value assets acquired. Total goodwill approximately $ million and other purchased intangibles approximately $ million are stated net total accumulated amortization $ million December , the accompanying balance sheet. Goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangibles are being amortized straight-line basis over lives ranging from two three years. Long-Lived Assets accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed , the carrying value intangible assets and other long-lived assets reviewed regular basis for the existence facts circumstances, both internally and externally, that may suggest impairment. date, such impairment has been indicated. Should there impairment the future, the Company will measure the amount the impairment based undiscounted expected future cash flows from the impaired assets. The cash flow estimates that will used will contain management\' best estimates, using appropriate and customary assumptions and projections the time. Fair Value Financial Instruments The carrying amounts for the Company\' cash, prepaid expenses and other, deposits and other, accounts payable, accrued advertising, and other liabilities and accrued expenses approximate fair value. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The fair market value for long-term debt and marketable securities based quoted market prices where available. Deferred Charges May , the Company issued approximately $ million gross proceeds % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Senior Discount Notes"). December , , deferred charges consisted fees associated with the issuance the Senior Discount Notes. The fees are being amortized into interest expense over the life the Senior Discount Notes. Income Taxes The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected effect when the differences are expected recovered. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue from product sales, net any discounts, when the products are shipped customers. Outbound shipping and handling charges are included net sales. Revenue from gift certificates recognized upon product shipment following redemption. The Company provides allowance for sales returns, which has been insignificant, based historical experience. Advertising Costs The cost advertising expensed incurred. For the years ended December , , and , the Company incurred advertising expense $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Product Development Product development expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants, systems and telecommunications infrastructure and costs acquired content. date, all product development costs have been expensed incurred. Merger and Acquisition Related Costs Merger and acquisition related costs consist primarily amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles approximately $ million, well approximately $ million, composed primarily equity loss investee and other merger and acquisition related costs. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees ("APB . "), and related interpretations, accounting for its employee stock options rather than the alternative fair value accounting allowed SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. APB . provides that the compensation expense relative the Company\' employee stock options measured based the intrinsic value the stock option. SFAS . requires companies that continue follow APB . provide pro forma disclosure the impact applying the fair value method SFAS . . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Foreign Currency Translation The functional currency the Company\' foreign subsidiaries the local currency. Assets and liabilities the foreign subsidiaries are translated into . dollars year end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are included accumulated other comprehensive income, separate component stockholders\' equity. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved, which have been insignificant, are included the consolidated statements operations. date, the Company has entered into foreign currency exchange contracts other such derivative instruments. Segment and Geographic Information The Company operates one principal business segment across domestic and international markets. International sales, including export sales from the United States, represented approximately %, %, and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. foreign country geographic area accounted for more than % net sales any the periods presented. There were transfers between geographic areas during the years ended December , and . Substantially all the domestic operating results and identifiable assets are the United States. Concentrations Credit Risk Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company concentrations credit risk, consist principally its holdings cash and marketable securities. The Company\' credit risk managed investing its cash and marketable securities high-quality money market instruments and securities the . government and its agencies, foreign governments and high-quality corporate issuers. December , , the Company has significant concentrations credit risk. Earnings (Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share excludes any dilutive effects options, warrants and convertible securities. Basic earnings per share computed using the weighted-average number common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed using the weighted-average number common and common stock equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation their effect antidilutive. result the Company\' initial public offering May , all preferred stock automatically converted into common stock. Accordingly, the and net loss per share pro forma loss per share based the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding and preferred stock " " converted basis outstanding during each period. The Company believes that this more meaningful presentation earnings per share for periods prior its initial public offering. Comprehensive Income (Loss) January , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Reporting Comprehensive Income, which establishes standards for the reporting and display comprehensive income and its components the financial statements. The only items comprehensive income (loss) that the Company currently reports are unrealized gains (losses) marketable securities and foreign currency translation adjustments. New Accounting Pronouncements March , the Accounting Standards Executive Committee issued Statement Position - ("SOP - "), Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) SOP - requires all costs related the development internal use software other than those incurred during the application development stage expensed incurred. Costs incurred during the application development stage are required capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software. SOP - effective for the Company\' fiscal year ending December , . Adoption not expected have material effect the Company\' consolidated financial statements the Company\' policies are substantially compliance with SOP - . April , the American Institute Certified Public Accountants issued SOP - , Reporting the Costs Start- Activities. SOP - effective for the Company\' fiscal year ending December , . SOP - requires costs start- activities and organization costs expensed incurred. Adoption not expected have material effect the Company\' consolidated financial statements. June , the FASB issued SFAS . Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS . effective for fiscal years beginning after June , . SFAS . requires that all derivative instruments recorded the balance sheet their fair value. Changes the fair value derivatives are recorded each period current earnings other comprehensive income, depending whether derivative designed part hedge transaction and, , the type hedge transaction. The Company does not expect that the adoption SFAS . will have material impact its consolidated financial statements because the Company does not currently hold any derivative instruments. Reclassifications Certain prior year balances have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. NOTE -- BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND INVESTMENTS April , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock three international Internet companies. The aggregate purchase price the three acquisitions, plus related charges, was approximately $ million. The consideration for the acquisitions was comprised common stock and cash. The Company issued aggregate approximately million shares common stock effect the transactions. The goodwill and other purchased intangibles are being amortized straight-line basis over two years. August , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock Junglee Corp. ("Junglee"). Junglee leading provider Web-based virtual database technology which allows visitors access variety products sold other merchants. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options and warrants connection with the acquisition Junglee. The Junglee acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method accounting, with substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. November , the Company sold the employment business unit Junglee exchange for cash and approximately million shares the purchaser\' common stock. There was gain loss recorded from this sale. The investment recorded cost and classified within marketable securities the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The pro forma combined consolidated financial information for the aggregate all the business combinations described above and accounted for under the purchase method accounting, though the acquisitions had occurred January each year, would have resulted net sales $ million and $ million; net loss $ million and $ million; and basic and diluted loss per share $ and $ for the years ended December , and , respectively. The pro forma net loss includes amortization goodwill and purchased intangibles $ million for the years ended December , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) and . This unaudited pro forma combined consolidated financial information presented for illustrative purposes only and not necessarily indicative the consolidated results operations future periods the results that actually would have been realized had Amazon com, the international subsidiaries and Junglee been combined company during the specified periods. August , the Company exchanged common stock and options for all the outstanding capital stock Sage Enterprises, Inc. ("PlanetAll"). The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options connection with the merger. The PlanetAll merger was accounted for pooling interests and, result, the Company\' consolidated financial statements have been restated for all periods presented. PlanetAll issued approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million and approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million January and April , respectively. Net sales for PlanetAll were not significant and net loss was $ million, $ million and $ , for the nine months ended September , and the years ended December , and , respectively, which represent separate results the combined entity through the periods preceding the merger. There were significant intercompany transactions between the two companies and significant conforming accounting adjustments. December , , the Company has investment approximately % drugstore com, inc., online drugstore, that accounted for under the equity method accounting. The Company\' basis its equity investment classified within other purchased intangibles the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the Company\' share the investee\' loss classified merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles. date, this investment has not materially impacted the Company\' results operations its financial position. NOTE -- MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize major security type the Company\' marketable securities and their contractual maturities: DECEMBER , --------------------------------------------------- GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED ESTIMATED COST GAINS LOSSES FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Commercial paper and short-term obligations........................... $ , $ $ -- $ , Corporate notes and bonds............... , ( ) , Asset-backed and agency securities...... , ( ) , Treasury notes and bonds................ , ( ) , Equity securities....................... , , -- , -------- ------ ----- -------- $ , $ , $( ) $ , ======== ====== ===== ======== AMORTIZED ESTIMATED COST FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Due within one year.................................... $ , $ , Due after one year through five years.................. , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities........................................... , , Equity securities...................................... , , -------- -------- $ , $ , ======== ======== AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The gross realized gains and losses sales available-for-sale securities were not significant for the year ended December , . The net adjustment unrealized holding gains available-for-sale securities included accumulated other comprehensive income component stockholders\' equity totaled approximately $ million. December , , marketable securities consist primarily commercial paper and short-term obligations and corporate notes and bonds and were carried cost, which approximates market. Unrealized holding gains and losses December , were not significant. NOTE -- FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consist the following: DECEMBER , ----------------- ------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Computers and equipment........................... $ , $ , Purchased software................................ , , Leasehold improvements............................ , Leased assets..................................... ------- ------ , , Less accumulated depreciation and amortization.... , , ------- ------ Fixed assets, net............................ $ , $ , ======= ====== NOTE -- LONG-TERM DEBT Senior Discount Notes May , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds the Senior Discount Notes due May , . Pursuant registration statement Form - September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Exchange Notes"), which were registered under the Securities Act , amended, for all outstanding Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout these notes consolidated financial statements interchangeably with the Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the original Senior Discount Notes (the "Indenture"). The Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the $ million aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. The Senior Discount Notes are senior unsecured indebtedness the Company ranking pari passu with the Company\' existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness and senior right payment all subordinated indebtedness the Company. The Senior Discount Notes are effectively subordinated all secured indebtedness and all existing and future liabilities the Company\' subsidiaries. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries ( defined the Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all financial covenants December , . portion the net proceeds from the offering the Senior Discount Notes was used retire approximately $ million indebtedness outstanding December , . Future principal payments related the Senior Discount Notes not commence until . The carrying amount the Senior Discount Notes approximately $ million December , , which approximates fair value. Financing Agreement for Purchase Fixed Assets November , the Company purchased fixed assets through financing agreement with vendor having imputed interest rate approximately % and term three years. The debt repaid four equal payments. Future debt payments related this financing agreement are $ , and $ , for the years ending December , and , respectively, and none thereafter. NOTE -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Leases and Marketing Agreements The Company currently leases office and distribution center facilities and fixed assets under noncancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for , and was $ million, $ million and $ , , respectively. The Company has also entered into certain marketing agreements, which include fixed fees through . The costs associated with these agreements are recognized systematic basis over the term the related agreements services are received. Future minimum commitments are follows: OPERATING LEASES AND CAPITAL MARKETING LEASES AGREEMENTS ------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , .............................................. $ $ , .............................................. , .............................................. -- , .............................................. -- , .............................................. -- , Thereafter........................................ -- , ---- -------- Total minimum lease payments........................... $ $ , ======== Less imputed interest.................................. ---- Present value net minimum lease payments............ Less current portion.............................. ---- Long-term capital lease obligation..................... $ ==== AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Legal Proceedings October , Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Wal-Mart") filed lawsuit Bentonville, Arkansas against the Company and other defendants alleging actual and threatened misappropriation trade secrets and ancillary common-law claims. Wal-Mart subsequently requested temporary restraining order preventing the defendants from misappropriating Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets, from placing employees positions which they would "inevitably disclose" Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets and from soliciting, inducing recruiting Wal-Mart employees. January , Wal-Mart filed identical action Seattle, Washington, and the Arkansas court dismissed Wal-Mart\' action jurisdictional grounds before deciding the temporary restraining order. The dismissal pending appeal. Wal-Mart has advised the Company that will file preliminary injunction motion. addition injunctive relief, Wal-Mart has requested compensatory damages, pre- and postjudgment interest and attorneys\' fees and costs. The Company believes that Wal-Mart\' claims are without merit and intends vigorously defend against the plaintiffs\' claims. Amazon com has filed counterclaim based part unfair competition and intentional interference. Litigation inherently uncertain, and there can assurance that the Company will prevail the lawsuit. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. NOTE -- STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Reincorporation and Authorized Capital May , the Company reincorporated the state Delaware with authorized capital million shares $ par value preferred stock and million shares $ par value common stock. April , the Company increased its authorized common stock million shares and increased its authorized preferred stock million shares. June , the Company increased the number authorized shares common stock, from million shares million shares. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restated reflect these recapitalizations. Preferred Stock June , the Company issued , shares Series convertible preferred stock price $ per share. January and February , the Company sold additional , shares Series preferred stock $ per share. The preferred stock was convertible into common stock the option the holder, any time, effective rate shares common stock for one share preferred stock. the closing the Company\' initial public offering, all the preferred stock outstanding was converted into aggregate , , shares common stock. Common Stock November , , the Company effected -for- common stock split. April , , the Company effected -for- common stock split. May , , the Company completed initial public offering million shares its common stock. Net proceeds the Company aggregated $ million. June , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend stockholders record May , . January , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend the stockholders record December , . Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restated reflect these stock splits. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Stock Option Plans The Company\' stock option plans consist the Stock Option Plan and the Stock Option Plan. Shares reserved under the plans consist million shares the Stock Option Plan and million shares the Stock Option Plan. Any shares common stock available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan that are not issued under that plan may added the aggregate number shares available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan. connection with the acquisition Junglee and the merger with PlanetAll August , the Company assumed outstanding options purchase common stock originally issued under these companies\' stock option plans. The Company\' stock options plans well the assumed stock option plans are hereby collectively referred the "Plans." Generally, options are granted the Company\' Board Directors exercise price not less than the fair market value the Company\' common stock the date grant. Each outstanding option granted prior December , has term five years from the date vesting. Each outstanding option granted subsequent December , has term ten years from the date grant. Subject Internal Revenue Service limitations, options granted under the Plans generally become exercisable immediately. Options generally vest the rate % after year one, % after year two and % the end each quarter for years three through five. Shares issued upon exercise options that are unvested are restricted and subject repurchase the Company upon termination employment services and such restrictions lapse over the original vesting schedule. December , , approximately million shares restricted common stock were subject repurchase. Stock Option Activity The following table summarizes the Company\' stock option activity: NUMBER WEIGHTED- AVERAGE SHARES EXERCISE PRICE -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) Balance January , ........................... , $ Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------ Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------ Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------ Balance December , ......................... , $ ====== December , , million shares common stock were available for future grant under the Plans. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The following table summarizes information about options outstanding and exercisable December , : OPTIONS OUTSTANDING --------------------------------------------- WEIGHTED- OPTIONS EXERCISABLE AVERAGE ------------------------------- REMAINING WEIGHTED- WEIGHTED- RANGE OPTIONS CONTRACTUAL AVERAGE OPTIONS AVERAGE EXERCISE PRICES OUTSTANDING LIFE EXERCISE PRICE EXERCISABLE EXERCISE PRICE --------------- -------------- ----------- -------------- -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) ( THOUSANDS) $ -- $ , years $ , $ -- , years , -- , years , -- , years , -- , years , -- years -- , years , -- , years , -- years -- years ------ ------ $ -- $ , years $ , $ ====== ====== Deferred Compensation The Company recorded aggregate deferred compensation $ million, $ million and $ , , and , respectively. The amounts recorded represent the difference between the grant price and the deemed fair value the Company\' common stock for shares subject options granted , and . Options granted below fair market value and the associated weighted average exercise price per share were , and $ , million and $ , and million and $ during the years ended December , , and , respectively. The amortization deferred compensation charged operations over the vesting period the options, which typically five years. Total amortization recognized and was $ million and $ million, respectively. amortization was recognized . Pro Forma Disclosure The Company follows the intrinsic value method accounting for its stock options. Had compensation cost been recognized based the fair value the date grant for options granted , and , the pro forma amounts the Company\' net loss and net loss per share for the years ended December , , and would have been follows: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------- ----------- ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported............................ $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) Net loss -- pro forma.............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- reported.... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- pro forma...... ( ) ( ) ( ) AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The fair value for each option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option pricing model, assuming expected dividends and the following weighted-average assumptions: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------- --------- -------- ------- Average risk-free interest rates................... % % % Average expected life ( years)................... Volatility ( )..................................... % % % - --------------- ( ) Options granted prior the Company\' initial public offering and PlanetAll prior its merger with the Company were valued using the minimum value method and therefore volatility was not applicable. The weighted-average fair value options granted during the years , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively, for options granted fair market value. The weighted-average fair value options granted less than fair market value during , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively. Compensation expense recognized providing pro forma disclosures may not representative the effects pro forma earnings for future years because SFAS . does not apply stock option grants made prior . Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance June , pursuant registration statement Form - , the Company registered million shares its common stock, which may from time time offered connection with the acquisition entities. Such shares may issued exchange for the shares capital stock ( merger otherwise), partnership interests other assets representing interest other companies other entities, exchange for assets used related the business such entities. December , , common stock reserved for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock options............................................... , Shelf registration.......................................... , ------ Total.................................................. , ====== NOTE -- EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE The following represents the calculations for net loss per share: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------- ----------- ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported.................... $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ========= ======== ======= Weighted average shares outstanding........ , , , Pro forma adjustment for preferred stock... -- , , Weighted average common shares issued subject repurchase agreements......... ( , ) ( , ) ( ) --------- -------- ------- Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................... , , , ========= ======== ======= Basic and diluted loss per share........... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======= AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) All the Company\' stock options (see Note ) are excluded from diluted loss per share since their effect antidilutive. NOTE -- INCOME TAXES The Company did not provide any current deferred United States federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because has experienced operating losses since inception. The Company has provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. December , , the Company had net operating loss carryforwards approximately $ million related . federal, foreign and state jurisdictions. Utilization net operating loss carryforwards may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended. Substantially all these carryforwards will begin expire various times starting . the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, when realized, relate stock option deductions approximately $ million, the resulting benefits will credited stockholders\' equity. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets are approximately follows: DECEMBER , ------------------ ------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Net operating loss carryforwards......................... $ , $ , Depreciation and amortization............................ , -- Other.................................................... , , ------- ------- Total deferred tax assets......................... , , Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets.............. ( , ) ( , ) ------- ------- Net deferred tax assets.................................. $ -- $ -- ======= ======= NOTE -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN The Company has ( ) savings plan covering substantially all its employees. Eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. The Company matches employees\' contributions the discretion the Company\' Board Directors. date, the Company has not matched employee contributions the ( ) savings plan. NOTE -- SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , the Company completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the "Convertible Notes"). The Convertible Notes are convertible into the Company\' common stock conversion price $ per share, subject adjustment certain events and the holders\' option. Interest the Convertible Notes payable semiannually arrears February and August each year, commencing August , . The Convertible Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness ( defined the Convertible Notes indenture) the Company. The Convertible Notes may redeemed the option the Company prior February , , whole part, the redemption prices set forth the Convertible Notes indenture. The Company obligated file May , , shelf registration statement covering resales the Convertible Notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion the Convertible Notes. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Upon occurrence any Fundamental Change ( defined the Convertible Notes indenture) prior the maturity the Convertible Notes, each holder the Convertible Notes has the right require the Company redeem all any part the holder\' Convertible Notes price equal % the principal amount, plus any accrued interest, the Convertible Notes being redeemed. The Company has may use the net proceeds from the offering the Convertible Notes for general corporate purposes, including working capital fund anticipated operating losses, the expansion the Company\' core business, investments new business segments and markets, capital expenditures, acquisitions investments complementary businesses, products and technologies and repurchases and retirement debt. Authorized Shares February , , the Board Directors approved increase authorized shares common stock and preferred stock, par value $ per share, from million shares billion shares and from million shares million shares, respectively. This increase authorized shares subject approval the stockholders the Company\' Annual Meeting May , . Stock Option Plan February , , the Board Directors approved the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, which reserves million shares common stock available for future issuance. NOTE -- QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited Statement Operations information for each quarter and . The Company believes that the following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share( )............. $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share................ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , - --------------- ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. ITEM . CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information regarding the Company\' executive officers required Part III, Item , set forth Item Part herein under the caption "Executive Officers and Directors." Information required Part III, Item , regarding the Company\' directors included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. Information relating compliance with Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, set forth the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information required Part III, Item , included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT Information required Part III, Item , included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information regarding certain the Company\' relationships and related transactions included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) LIST DOCUMENTS FILED PART THIS ANNUAL REPORT: ( ) INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) INDEX FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES: Schedule -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) INDEX EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Acquisition, Inc. and Junglee Corporation (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Pacific Acquisition, Inc. and Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Registration Rights Agreement entered into May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Junglee Corp. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Telebook, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed September , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Note Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors and Executive Officers (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Incentive Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Investor Rights Agreement, dated June , , and among the Company, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VIII, KPCB Information Sciences Zaibatsu Fund and Jeffrey . Bezos (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between the Company and McConnell Development, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). Lease Agreement, dated April , , and between Bookpages Limited and Amazon com, Inc. and Slough Trading Estate Limited (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended June , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and WRC COM Tower LLC (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). + Junglee Corp. Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed October , ). Lease Agreement, dated December , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and Panattoni Carlsen Rieger. List Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Financial Data Schedule. - --------------- + Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) REPORTS FORM - : October , , the Company filed Form - under Item , which amended the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , , regarding its acquisition Junglee Corp. October , , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing its financial results for the third quarter . November , , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing the approval the Board Directors -for- stock split its common stock. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this Report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. AMAZON COM, INC. Date: March , : / / JEFFREY . BEZOS ------------------------------------ Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this Report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities indicated. / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Chairman the Board, President and Chief - -------------------------------------------- Executive Officer (Principal Executive Jeffrey . Bezos Officer) / / JOY . COVEY Chief Financial Officer and Vice President - -------------------------------------------- Finance and Administration (Principal Joy . Covey Financial and Accounting Officer) / / TOM . ALBERG Director - -------------------------------------------- Tom . Alberg / / SCOTT . COOK Director - -------------------------------------------- Scott . Cook / / . JOHN DOERR Director - -------------------------------------------- . John Doerr / / PATRICIA . STONESIFER Director - -------------------------------------------- Patricia . Stonesifer AMAZON COM, INC. SCHEDULE -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS INVENTORY VALUATION ALLOWANCE CHARGED/ BALANCE (CREDITED) INVENTORY BALANCE BEGINNING COSTS DISPOSED END YEAR ENDED PERIOD AND EXPENSES WRITTEN OFF PERIOD ---------- ---------- ------------------- ------------ ---------- ( THOUSANDS) December , ............... $ $ , $( ) $ , ==== ====== ===== ====== December , ............... $ -- $ $ -- $ ==== ====== ===== ====== December , ............... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- ==== ====== ===== ====== INDEX EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Acquisition, Inc. and Junglee Corporation (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Pacific Acquisition, Inc. and Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Registration Rights Agreement entered into May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Junglee Corp. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Telebook, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed September , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Note Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors and Executive Officers (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Incentive Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Investor Rights Agreement, dated June , , and among the Company, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VIII, KPCB Information Sciences Zaibatsu Fund and Jeffrey . Bezos (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between the Company and McConnell Development, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). Lease Agreement, dated April , , and between Bookpages Limited and Amazon com, Inc. and Slough Trading Estate Limited (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended June , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and WRC COM Tower LLC (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). + Junglee Corp. Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed October , ). Lease Agreement, dated December , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and Panattoni Carlsen Rieger. List Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Financial Data Schedule. - --------------- + Executive Compensation Plan Agreemen', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant.......... ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation...................................... ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.................................................. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.............. PART ', 'item 14. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ......................................................... Signatures............................................................ PART ITEM . BUSINESS This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based current expectations, estimates and projections about the Company\' industry, management\' beliefs and certain assumptions made management. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Forward-Looking Statements." GENERAL Amazon com, Inc. ("Amazon com" the "Company"), the Internet\' number one book, music and video retailer, opened its virtual doors the Web July . Amazon com, one the most widely known, used and cited commerce sites the Web, offers more than million book, music , video, DVD, computer game and other titles. The Company offers its customers superior shopping experience providing value and high level customer service. Amazon com proven technology leader; has developed electronic commerce innovations such -Click ordering, personalized shopping services and easy- -use search and browse features. Shopping Amazon com fast and safe, incorporating simple ordering system, secure credit card transactions, -mail communication with customers and direct shipping worldwide. The Internet increasingly significant global medium for online commerce. According Forrester Research, the total value goods and services purchased over the Web was $ billion and expected increase $ trillion . Amazon com believes well positioned capitalize this growth. According Media Metrix, approximately % Web users visited Amazon com\' stores December . Amazon com, Amazon , Amazon , Internet Movie Database, Earth\' Biggest Bookstore and -Click are either registered trademarks trademarks Amazon com its affiliates. All other names mentioned herein may trademarks their respective owners. Information contained the Company\' Web sites not deemed part this Annual Report Form - . used herein, "titles" offered the Company means the items offered the Company\' catalogs and includes books, CDs, videotapes, audiotapes and other products. Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated Delaware. The Company\' principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. Amazon com completed its initial public offering May and its common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." BUSINESS STRATEGY The Company\' objective become the best place buy, find and discover any product service available online. Amazon com will continue enhance and broaden its brand, customer base and electronic commerce expertise with the goal creating customers\' preferred online shopping destination, the United States and around the world. AMAZON COM WEB SITES The Company believes that the sale books, music and other products and services over the Web can offer attractive benefits customers, including greater selection, convenience, ease- -use, competitive pricing and personalization. Customers entering Amazon com Web sites can, addition ordering books and other products, purchase gift certificates, conduct targeted searches, browse highlighted selections, view bestseller lists and other features, read and post reviews, register for personalized services, participate promotions and check order status. The key components Amazon com\' offerings include browsing, searching, reviews and content, recommendations and personalization, -Click technology, secure credit card payment and availability and fulfillment. The Company\' Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat purchases providing inviting experience that encourages customers return frequently and interact with other customers. Browsing. The Amazon com sites offer visitors variety highlighted subject areas, styles and special features arranged simple, easy- -use fashion intended enhance product search and selection. addition, the Web sites present variety products and services and topical information. enhance the customers\' shopping experience and increase sales, the Company features variety products and services rotating basis throughout the stores. Searching. primary feature Amazon com Web sites its interactive, searchable catalogs more than million books, music , video, DVD, computer game and other titles. The Company provides selection search tools find books, music, video and other products based keyword, title, subject, author, artist, musical instrument, label, actor, director, publication date ISBN. Customers can also use more complex and precise search tools such Boolean search queries. The Company licenses some its catalog and other information from third parties. Reviews and Content. The Amazon com stores offer numerous forms content enhance the customer\' shopping experience and encourage purchases. Various types content are available for particular titles, including cover art, synopses, annotations, reviews editorial staff and other customers, and interviews authors and artists. Recommendations and Personalization. Amazon com personalizes its product and service offerings. These features include greeting customers name, instant and personalized recommendations, bestseller and chart-topper listings, personal notification services, purchase pattern filtering and number other related features. The Company believes that personalization customer\' shopping experience the Company\' Web sites important element the value proposition offers customers and intends continue enhance its personalized services. -Click Technology. Amazon com provides customers with streamlined ordering process using -Click technology. customer has previously activated -Click functionality, customer can place order clicking one button without having fill out order form. The customer\' shipping and billing information automatically referenced the Company\' secure server. Secure Credit Card Payment. Amazon com utilizes secure server software for secure commerce transactions. encrypts all the customer\' personal information, including credit card number, name and address, that cannot read the information travels over the Internet. Availability and Fulfillment. Many the Company\' products are available for shipment within hours, others are available within two three days and the remainder are generally available within four six weeks, although some products may not available all. Out- -print books generally are available one three months, although some books may not available all. Customers can select from variety delivery options, including overnight and various international shipping options, well gift-wrapping services. The Company uses -mail notify customers order status under various conditions and provides links shipping carriers that the customers can track their shipments. The Company seeks provide rapid and reliable fulfillment customer orders and continue improve its speed availability and fulfillment. Return Policy. Within days following the customer\' receipt their order, Amazon com will provide full refund for any book its original condition, any Amazon com recommended book any condition, any unopened music , DVD, VHS tape software, and any other merchandise item new condition, with its original packaging and accessories. PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION Products. The Company has offered books for sale since July . The Company expanded its product offerings beyond books with the June launch its music store. the third quarter , its first full quarter online music sales, Amazon com became the number one online music seller. November , Amazon com launched its video store and enhanced holiday gift store, offering variety products, including selected personal electronics and toy products. the fourth quarter , its first quarter online video sales, Amazon com became the number one online video seller. The Company plans continue expand its product offerings. Services. Amazon com intends broaden the scope its business with the goal becoming customers\' preferred destination for online shopping. August , Amazon com merged with Sage Enterprises, Inc. ("PlanetAll"), Web-based address book, calendar and reminder service, and Junglee Corp. ("Junglee"), leading provider Web-based virtual database technology, which allows visitors access variety products sold other merchants. The Company plans continue expand its service offerings. Geographic Expansion. April , Amazon com acquired three Internet companies the United Kingdom and Germany. October , the Company -launched two these businesses under the Amazon brand. The Company incorporated Amazon com\' technology and look-and-feel into the European sites, www amazon and www amazon . During the fourth quarter , combined sales the European sites significantly increased over the third quarter, establishing Amazon com the number one online bookseller these markets. For discussion segment and geographic information, see Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. MARKETING AND PROMOTION Amazon com\' marketing strategy designed strengthen the Amazon brand name, increase customer traffic the Amazon com Web sites, build customer loyalty, encourage repeat purchases and develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities. Amazon com creatively applies technology deliver personalized programs and services, well flexible merchandising. The Company employs variety media, business development and promotional methods achieve these goals. The Company also benefits from public relations activities well online and traditional advertising, including radio, television and print media. Associates Program. The Company extends its market presence through its Associates Program, which enables associated Web sites make products available their audiences with order fulfillment Amazon com. Approximately , Web sites have enrolled the Associates Program. Amazon com associates include Yahoo! Inc. ("Yahoo!"), American Online, Inc. ("AOL"), Excite, Inc., Netscape Communications Corporation, GeoCities, Microsoft Corporation and AltaVista Company. Advantage for Books and Music. The Advantage program designed increase the visibility and sales titles from independent publishers, authors, artists and labels. This free program provides the tools and framework ensure their books and music appear more often, more prominently, and with -hour availability throughout Amazon com\' catalogs book, music and other titles. CUSTOMER SERVICE The Company believes that its ability establish and maintain long-term relationships with its customers and encourage repeat visits and purchases depends, part, the strength its customer support and service operations and staff. Furthermore, the Company seeks achieve frequent communication with and feedback from its customers continually improve the Amazon com stores and services. The Company offers number -mail addresses enable customers request information and encourage feedback and suggestions. Users can also contact customer service representatives via telephone hours day, days week. The Company has automated certain the tools used its customer support and service staff and has plans for further enhancements. WAREHOUSING, FULFILLMENT AND DISTRIBUTION The Company sources products from network distributors, publishers, labels and manufacturers. Although the Company carries its own inventory (some which purchased directly from manufacturers), also relies rapid fulfillment from major distributors and wholesalers that carry broad selection titles. The Company purchases majority its products from Ingram Book Group ("Ingram"), Baker & Taylor, Inc. (" & ") and Valley Media, Inc. ("Valley Media"). Ingram the Company\' single largest supplier and accounted for approximately % and approximately % the Company\' inventory purchases and , respectively. The Company utilizes automated interfaces for sorting and organizing its orders enable achieve rapid and economic purchase and delivery terms. For orders that cannot filled from the Company\' inventory, the Company\' proprietary software selects the orders that can filled via electronic interfaces with vendors and forwards the remaining orders its special orders group. Under the Company\' arrangements with distributors, electronically ordered books often are shipped the Company the distributor within hours receipt order from Amazon com. The Company has developed customized information systems and trained dedicated ordering personnel who specialize sourcing out- -print books and other hard- -find products. The Company intends continue developing its distribution infrastructure increase efficiency and support greater customer demand. For example, December , Amazon com leased highly mechanized distribution facility Fernley, Nevada. The new facility, which expected begin operations , should reduce standard shipping times key markets the western United States. The facility will allow the Company increase significantly the number products maintained inventory for rapid shipment customers. TECHNOLOGY The Company has implemented numerous site management, search, customer interaction, recommendation, transaction-processing and fulfillment services and systems using combination its own proprietary technologies and commercially available, licensed technologies. The Company\' current strategy focus its development efforts creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique its business and license acquire commercially developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. The Company uses set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory customer orders and ensuring proper shipment products customers based various ordering criteria. The Company\' transaction- processing systems handle millions items, number different availability statuses, gift-wrapping requests and multiple shipment methods and allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing and charging customer credit cards. Amazon com Web sites also incorporate variety search and database tools. Systems administrators and network managers monitor and operate the Company\' Web sites, network operations and transaction-processing systems. The continued uninterrupted operation the Company\' Web sites and transaction-processing systems essential its business and the job the site operations staff ensure their reliability. The Company uses the services five Internet service providers obtain connectivity the Internet, both domestically and internationally, over multiple dedicated lines. COMPETITION The online commerce market, particularly over the Web, new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music and video industries are intensely competitive. The Company\' current potential competitors include ( ) online booksellers and vendors other products such CDs, videotapes and DVDs, ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines such Yahoo! and AOL, that are involved online commerce either directly collaboration with other retailers, ( ) publishers, distributors and retail vendors books, music, video and other products, including Barnes & Noble, Inc. ("Barnes & Noble"), Bertelsmann ("Bertelsmann") and other large specialty booksellers and media corporations, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and ( ) traditional retailers who currently sell, who may sell, products services through the Internet. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors its market are brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other site content, and reliability and speed fulfillment. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. For example, late , ( ) Bertelsmann announced that purchased % interest Barnes & Noble\' online venture, barnesandnoble com inc., and intends launch online stores several countries, ( ) Barnes & Noble announced its pending acquisition Ingram, currently the Company\' largest single supplier, and ( ) online music retailers CDnow, Inc. and N2K Inc. announced merger. The Company may not able compete successfully against these and future competitors. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company regards its patents, copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical its success, and relies trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with its employees, customers, partners and others protect its proprietary rights. The Company has applied for the registration certain its trademarks and service marks the United States and internationally. addition, the Company has filed . and international patent applications covering certain its proprietary technology. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which the Company\' products and services are made available online. The Company has licensed the past, and expects that may license the future, certain its proprietary rights, such trademarks, technology copyrighted material, third parties. EMPLOYEES December , , the Company employed approximately , employees. The Company also employs independent contractors. None the Company\' employees are represented labor union, and the Company considers its employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel the Company\' industry intense, particularly for software development and other technical staff. The Company believes that its future success will depend part its continued ability attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. have limited operating history. incorporated July and began offering products for sale our Web site July . Accordingly, have relatively short operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. You should consider our prospects light the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered early stage online commerce companies. early-stage online commerce company, have evolving and unpredictable business model, face intense competition, must effectively manage our growth and must respond quickly rapid changes customer demands and industry standards. may not succeed addressing these challenges and risks. have accumulated deficit and anticipate further losses. have incurred significant losses since began doing business. December , , had accumulated deficit $ million. succeed must invest heavily marketing and promotion and developing our product, technology and operating infrastructure. addition, the expenses associated with our recent acquisitions and interest expense related the February issuance our % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the "Convertible Notes") and the May issuance our % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Senior Discount Notes") will adversely affect our operating results. Our aggressive pricing programs have resulted relatively low product gross margins, need generate and sustain substantially higher revenues order become profitable. Although our revenues have grown, cannot sustain our current rate growth. Our percentage growth rate will decrease the future. For these reasons believe that will continue incur substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future, and these losses may significantly higher than our current losses. Unpredictability future revenues; potential fluctuations quarterly operating results; seasonality. Due our limited operating history and the unpredictability our industry, cannot accurately forecast our revenues. base our current and future expense levels our investment plans and estimates future revenues. Our expenses are large extent fixed. may not able adjust our spending quickly our revenues fall short our expectations. Further, may make pricing, purchasing, service, marketing, acquisition financing decisions that could adversely affect our business results. Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate for many reasons, including: - our ability retain existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers\' demand, - our ability acquire merchandise, manage our inventory and fulfill orders, - changes gross margins our current and future products, services and markets, - introduction our new sites, services and products those competitors, - changes usage the Internet and online services and consumer acceptance the Internet and online commerce, - timing upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure, - the level traffic our Web sites, - the effects acquisitions and other business combinations, and related integration, - technical difficulties, system downtime Internet brownouts, - introductions popular books, music selections and other products services, - our level merchandise returns, and - disruptions service common shipping carriers due strikes otherwise. Both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality may affect our business. Internet usage generally declines during the summer. Sales the traditional retail book and music industries usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. For those reasons, you should not rely period- -period comparisons our financial results forecast our future performance. Our future operating results may fall below the expectations securities analysts investors, which would likely cause the trading price our common stock decline. Intense competition. The online commerce market new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. addition, the retail book, music and video industries are intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include ( ) online booksellers and vendors other products such CDs, videotapes and DVDs, ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines, such Yahoo! and AOL, that are involved online commerce either directly collaboration with other retailers, ( ) publishers, distributors and retail vendors books, music, video and other products, including Barnes & Noble, Bertelsmann and other large specialty booksellers and media corporations, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and ( ) traditional retailers who currently sell, who may sell, products services through the Internet. believe that the principal competitive factors our market are brand recognition, selection, personalized services, convenience, price, accessibility, customer service, quality search tools, quality editorial and other site content, and reliability and speed fulfillment. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing inventory policies. They also can devote more resources technology development and marketing than can. also expect experience increased competition from online commerce sites that provide goods and services near cost, relying advertising revenues achieve profitability. the online commerce market continues grow, other companies may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. For example, late , ( ) Bertelsmann announced that purchased % interest Barnes & Noble\' online venture, barnesandnoble com inc., and intends launch online stores several countries, ( ) Barnes & Noble announced its pending acquisition Ingram, currently our largest single supplier, and ( ) online music retailers CDnow, Inc. and N2K Inc. announced merger. may not able compete successfully against these and future competitors. Competition the Internet and online commerce markets probably will intensify. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may use their market power expand into the markets which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies may increase the competitive pressures online retailers. For example, "shopping agent" technologies permit customers quickly compare our prices with those our competitors. This increased competition may reduce our operating margins, diminish our market share impair the value our brand. Risks system interruption. Customers\' access our Web sites directly affects the volume orders fulfill and thus affects our revenues. experience occasional system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. These interruptions will continue. need add additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and network infrastructure accommodate increased traffic our Web sites and increased sales volume. Without these upgrades, face additional system interruptions, slower response times, diminished customer service, impaired quality and speed order fulfillment, and delays our financial reporting. cannot accurately project the rate timing any increases traffic sales volume our Web sites and, therefore, the integration and timing these upgrades are uncertain. maintain substantially all our computer and communications hardware single leased facility Seattle, Washington. Our systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. not have backup systems formal disaster recovery plan and may not have sufficient business interruption insurance compensate for losses from major interruption. Computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins and similar disruptions could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss critical data and could prevent from providing services and accepting and fulfilling customer orders. may have difficulty managing our growth. have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will further expand our operations address potential growth our product and service offerings and customer base. will expand our product and service offerings and our international operations and will pursue other market opportunities. need significantly expand our distribution center network and improve our transaction-processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. This expansion will continue place significant strain our management, operational facilities and financial resources. Because difficult predict sales increases, and lead times for developing distribution centers are long, may over-expand our facilities, which may result excess inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. also need expand, train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel successfully identify, manage and exploit market opportunities, which may limit our growth. Risk entering new business areas. intend expand our operations promoting new complementary products, services sales formats and expanding our product service offerings. This will require significant additional expense and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. cannot expect benefit these new markets from the first- -market advantage that experienced the online book market. Our gross margins these new business areas may lower than our existing business activities. may not able expand our operations cost-effective timely manner. Any new business that our customers not receive favorably could damage our reputation and the Amazon brand. Risk international expansion. plan expand our presence foreign markets. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing and distributing products services for these markets and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. will costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally, and develop localized Web sites and stores and other systems. may not succeed our efforts these countries. revenues from international activities not offset the expense establishing and maintaining foreign operations, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will suffer. the international online commerce market continues grow, competition this market will likely intensify. addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate Internet other online services such areas content, privacy, network security, encryption distribution. This may affect our ability conduct business internationally. Risks business combinations and strategic alliances. may expand our operations market presence entering into business combinations, investments, joint ventures other strategic alliances with other companies. These transactions create risks such : - difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel the combined companies, - disruption our ongoing business, - problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel, - expenses associated with amortization goodwill and other purchased intangible assets, - additional operating losses and expenses acquired businesses, and - impairment relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners. may not succeed addressing these risks. addition, the businesses acquired are incurring operating losses. Rapid technological change. Technology the online commerce industry changes rapidly. Customer functionality requirements and preferences also change. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology obsolete. succeed, must enhance Web site responsiveness, functionality and features, acquire and license leading technologies, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technology and respond technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices cost-effective and timely basis. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and industry standards. depend key personnel. depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board. not have long-term employment agreements with any our key personnel, and not have "key person" life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. rely small number suppliers. purchase majority our products from three major vendors, Ingram, & and Valley Media. late , Barnes & Noble, one our largest competitors, announced agreement purchase Ingram. Ingram our single largest supplier and supplied approximately % our inventory purchases and approximately % our inventory purchases . Although increased our direct purchasing from manufacturers during , continue purchase majority our products from these three suppliers. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. Our current vendors may stop selling merchandise acceptable terms. may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. are highly leveraged. have significant indebtedness. December , , were indebted under our Senior Discount Notes, capitalized lease obligations and other asset financing. With the sale the Convertible Notes February , incurred $ billion additional indebtedness. may incur substantial additional debt the future. Our indebtedness could: - make difficult make principal and interest payments the Senior Discount Notes and the Convertible Notes, - make difficult obtain necessary financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements other purposes, - limit our flexibility planning for, reacting , changes our business and competition, and - make more difficult for react the event economic downturn. may not able meet our debt service obligations. our cash flow inadequate meet our obligations, may face substantial liquidity problems. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with other covenants our indebtedness, will default. This would permit our creditors accelerate the maturity our indebtedness. Risks associated with domain names. hold rights various Web domain names, including "Amazon com," "Amazon " and "Amazon ." Governmental agencies typically regulate domain names. These regulations are subject change. may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Governmental regulation and legal uncertainties. this time, face general business regulations and laws regulations regarding taxation and access online commerce. For example, expanding our distribution center network may result additional sales and other tax obligations. Regulatory authorities may adopt specific laws and regulations governing the Internet online commerce. These regulations may cover taxation, user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution and characteristics and quality products and services. Changes consumer protection laws also may impose additional burdens companies conducting business online. These laws regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. Moreover, not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply the Internet and online commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. Risks uncertain protection intellectual property. Third parties that license our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patented technology copyrighted material, may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. addition, the steps take protect our proprietary rights may not adequate and third parties may infringe misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that infringed their proprietary rights. have been subject claims, and expect subject legal proceedings and claims, regarding alleged infringement and our licensees the trademarks and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, even not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Risks Year non-compliance. have developed plan modify our information technology recognize the year and have begun converting our critical data processing systems. have initiated formal communications with our significant suppliers and service providers determine the extent which our systems may vulnerable they fail address and correct their own Year issues. cannot guarantee that the systems suppliers other companies which rely will Year compliant. Their failure convert their systems could disrupt our systems. addition, the computer systems necessary maintain the viability the Internet any the Web sites that direct consumers our online stores may not Year compliant. Finally, computers used our customers access our online stores may not Year compliant, delaying our customers\' purchases our products. are the process developing formal contingency plan. cannot guarantee that our systems will Year compliant that the Year problem will not adversely affect our business, which includes limiting precluding customer purchases. Our stock price highly volatile. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. For example, during the -week period ended February , ( adjusted for our -for- split our common stock effected June , and -for- split our common stock effected January , ), the reported closing price the common stock the Nasdaq National Market was high $ and low $ per share. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : - quarterly variations operating results, - announcements innovations, - new products, services and strategic developments our competitors, - business combinations and investments our competitors, - changes our operating expense levels losses, - changes financial estimates and recommendations securities analysts, - performance other online commerce companies, and - news reports relating trends the Internet, book, music, video other product service industries. Any these events may cause our stock price fall, which may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. addition, the stock market general and the market prices for Internet-related companies particular have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated the operating performance such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price the common stock, regardless our operating performance. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS The following tables set forth certain information regarding the executive officers and Directors the Company February , : EXECUTIVE OFFICERS NAME AGE POSITION ---- --- -------- Jeffrey . Bezos........................... President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Joy . Covey............................... Chief Financial Officer and Vice President Finance and Administration Richard . Dalzell......................... Vice President and Chief Information Officer Sheldon . Kaphan.......................... Vice President and Chief Technology Officer John . Risher............................. Senior Vice President Product Development Kavitark . Shriram........................ Vice President Business Development Jimmy . Wright............................ Vice President and Chief Logistics Officer JEFFREY . BEZOS. . Bezos has been President and Chairman the Board the Company since founding , and Chief Executive Officer since May , and served Treasurer and Secretary from May March . From December June , . Bezos was employed . Shaw & ., Wall Street investment firm, becoming Senior Vice President . From April December , . Bezos was employed Bankers Trust Company, becoming Vice President February . . Bezos received his . Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Summa Cum Laude, from Princeton University. JOY . COVEY. . Covey joined the Company December Chief Financial Officer and Vice President Finance and Administration, and served Secretary from March February . . Covey also served Treasurer the Company from March February . From June February , . Covey served Vice President, Operations the Broadcast Division Avid Technology, Inc. ("Avid"), developer digital media systems, and from January June , . Covey served Vice President Business Development for Avid. From July January , . Covey served Chief Financial Officer Digidesign, Inc., developer random access digital audio systems and software. Prior that, she was associate Wasserstein Perella & ., and certified public accountant Ernst & Young LLP. . Covey received her . Business Administration, Summa Cum Laude, from California State University, Fresno, her ., With High Distinction, from Harvard Business School and her ., Magna Cum Laude, from Harvard Law School. She Certified Public Accountant and member the California State Bar. RICHARD . DALZELL. . Dalzell joined the Company August Vice President and Chief Information Officer. From February August , . Dalzell held several management positions within the Information Systems Division Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., including Vice President Information Systems from January August . From , . Dalzell acted the Business Development Manager for -Systems, Inc. Prior joining -Systems, Inc. served seven years the United States Army teleprocessing officer. . Dalzell received . Engineering from the United States Military Academy, West Point. SHELDON . KAPHAN. . Kaphan has served the Company\' Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since March . From October March , . Kaphan served Vice President Research and Development the Company. From October July , . Kaphan served senior engineer Kaleida Labs Inc., multimedia joint venture between Apple Computer Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. . Kaphan received his . Mathematics from the University California, Santa Cruz. JOHN . RISHER. . Risher joined the Company February Vice President Product Development. . Risher was promoted Senior Vice President Product Development November . From July February , . Risher held variety marketing and project management positions Microsoft Corporation, including Team Manager for Microsoft Access and Founder and Product Unit Manager for Investor, Microsoft\' Web site for personal investment. . Risher received his . Comparative Literature, Magna Cum Laude, from Princeton University and his . from Harvard Business School. KAVITARK . SHRIRAM. . Shriram joined the Company August and was named Vice President Business Development October . From May August , . Shriram served President and Chief Operating Officer Junglee Corp. From November July , . Shriram held several positions Netscape Communications Corporation, most recently Vice President OEM and WebSite Sales. From , . Shriram served director global channel sales Network Computing Devices, Inc. . Shriram holds . from the University Madras, India and . from the University Michigan. JIMMY . WRIGHT. . Wright joined the Company July Vice President and Chief Logistics Officer. From , . Wright held variety logistics management positions with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., most recently Vice President Distribution. Additionally, during , . Wright served managing partner Diversified Retail Solutions, ., retail consulting firm. From , . Wright held variety positions Fina Oil and Chemical Company, branch Petrofina . based Brussels, most recently General Manager Distribution. . Wright received his . personnel management from the University Texas. BOARD DIRECTORS NAME AGE ---- --- Jeffrey . Bezos........................... Chairman the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer the Company Tom . Alberg.............................. Principal Madrona Investment Group, . Scott . Cook.............................. Founder and Chairman the Executive Committee Intuit, Inc. . John Doerr.............................. General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Patricia . Stonesifer..................... Chairman the Gates Learning Foundation and Former Senior Vice President the Interactive Media Division Microsoft Corporation ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company\' principal office facilities located the United States currently total approximately , square feet and are located Seattle, Washington under leases that expire June through April . The Company also recently leased office building approximately , square feet Seattle, Washington under lease that expires . The Company will occupy the office building . The Company\' warehousing and fulfillment operations are housed approximately , -square-foot facility Seattle, Washington under lease that expires October , and approximately , -square-foot facility located New Castle, Delaware under lease that expires October . December , the Company leased approximately , -square-foot distribution facility Fernley, Nevada under lease that expires . The facility expected begin operations . The Company has additional properties Europe. The German subsidiary\' headquarters and distribution center, located Regensburg, Germany, total approximately , square feet, under leases that expire December and . The editorial and marketing offices Germany are approximately , square feet and are located Munich under lease that expires . The headquarter offices and distribution center the . subsidiary total approximately , square feet and are located Slough, England under lease that expires . The Company does not own any real estate December , . Additionally, the Company anticipates that will require additional office space within the next months. There can assurance that suitable additional space will available commercially reasonable terms. The Company intends establish one more additional distribution centers within the next months, which would require commit lease obligations, stock inventories, purchase fixed assets, hire and train employees and install leasehold improvements. addition, the Company has announced plans continue developing distribution infrastructure increase efficiency and support greater customer demand, well increase its inventory provide better availability customers and achieve purchasing efficiencies. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Intimate Bookshop. August , The Intimate Bookshop and Wallace Kuralt filed lawsuit the United States District Court for the Southern District New York against the Company, Barnes & Noble, Borders Group, Inc. and others alleging antitrust, unfair competition and related claims under the Robinson-Patman Act, the Clayton Act, the Donnelly Act and certain New York state statutes and common law. The complaint was thereafter amended drop the class action allegations and certain claims. claim for unfair competition was added. The plaintiffs requested the following relief: actual damages approximately $ million, treble damages, injunctive relief, punitive damages, pre- and postjudgment interest, attorneys\' fees and costs. Amazon com understands that the plaintiffs filed voluntary dismissal this action, with prejudice, March , . Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. October , Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Wal-Mart") filed lawsuit Bentonville, Arkansas against the Company and other defendants alleging actual and threatened misappropriation trade secrets and ancillary common-law claims. Wal-Mart subsequently requested temporary restraining order preventing the defendants from misappropriating Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets, from placing employees positions which they would "inevitably disclose" Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets and from soliciting, inducing recruiting Wal-Mart employees. January , Wal-Mart filed identical action Seattle, Washington, and the Arkansas court dismissed Wal-Mart\' action jurisdictional grounds before deciding the temporary restraining order. The dismissal pending appeal. Wal-Mart has advised the Company that will file preliminary injunction motion. addition injunctive relief, Wal-Mart has requested compensatory damages, pre- and postjudgment interest and attorneys\' fees and costs. The Company believes that Wal-Mart\' claims are without merit and intends vigorously defend against the plaintiffs\' claims. Amazon com has filed counterclaim based part unfair competition and intentional interference. Litigation inherently uncertain, and there can assurance that the Company will prevail the lawsuit. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted for vote stockholders the Company during the fourth quarter the year ended December , . PART ITEM . MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT\' COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Market Information The common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "AMZN." The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. HIGH LOW ------- ------ Year ended December , Second Quarter (from May )............................ $ $ Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... Year ended December , First Quarter........................................... Second Quarter.......................................... Third Quarter........................................... Fourth Quarter.......................................... The prices this table have been adjusted reflect the -for- stock split effected June , and the -for- stock split effected January , . Holders February , there were , stockholders record the common stock, although there are larger number beneficial owners. Dividends The Company has never declared paid cash dividends its common stock. The Company intends retain all future earnings finance future growth and, therefore, does not anticipate paying any cash dividends the foreseeable future. addition, the Company restricted from paying cash dividends under the Senior Discount Notes. Changes Securities None. Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. ITEM . SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and the information contained herein Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations." Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. PERIOD FROM JULY , YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , (INCEPTION) -------------------------------------------- DECEMBER , --------- -------- -------- ------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) STATEMENT OPERATIONS DATA ( ): Net sales.................................. $ , $ , $ , $ $ -- Cost sales.............................. , , , -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Gross profit............................... , , , -- Operating expenses: Marketing and sales...................... , , , -- Product development...................... , , , General and administrative............... , , , Merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles............ , -- -- -- -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Total operating expenses.......... , , , --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Loss from operations....................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( ) Interest income............................ , , -- Interest expense........................... ( , ) ( ) ( ) -- -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Net interest income (expense)..... ( , ) , -- --------- -------- -------- ------- ------- Net loss................................... $( , ) $( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======== ======= ======= Basic and diluted loss per share ( )....... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======== ======= ======= Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share ( )............... , , , , , ========= ======== ======== ======= ======= DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------------------------- --------- -------- -------- ------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) BALANCE SHEET DATA ( ): Cash....................................... $ , $ , $ $ $ Marketable securities...................... , , , -- Working capital (deficiency)............... , , , ( ) Total assets............................... , , , , Long-term debt............................. , , -- -- -- Stockholders\' equity....................... , , , - --------------- ( ) Reflects restatement for pooling interests. See Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ( ) For further discussion loss per share see Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM . MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . This Act provides "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements encourage companies provide prospective information about themselves long they identify these statements forward looking and provide meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results differ from the projected results. All statements other than statements historical fact made this Annual Report Form - are forward looking. particular, the statements herein regarding industry prospects and future results operations financial position are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\' current expectations and are inherently uncertain. The Company\' actual results may differ significantly from management\' expectations. The following discussion and the section entitled "Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results" describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause these differences. RESULTS OPERATIONS Net Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Net sales..................... $ , % $ , % $ , Net sales are composed the selling price books, music and other products and services sold the Company, net returns, well outbound shipping and handling charges. Growth net sales and reflects significant increase units sold due the growth the Company\' customer base and repeat purchases from the Company\' existing customers. The Company had approximately million and million cumulative customer accounts December , and , respectively. Repeat customer orders accounted for over % orders placed the Amazon com Web site during the fiscal year ended December , . Additionally, the increase net sales was partially due the opening the music store June , the United Kingdom and German stores October and the video store November . International sales, including export sales from the United States, represented approximately %, % and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. Although there can assurances, the Company does not expect the introduction the Euro resulting from the European Monetary Union significantly impact our competitive position operations. Gross Profit % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Gross profit.................... $ , % $ , % $ , Gross margin.................... % % % Gross profit consists sales less the cost sales, which consists the cost merchandise sold customers, well outbound and inbound shipping costs. Gross profit increased and absolute dollars, reflecting the Company\' increased sales volume. Gross margin increased result improvements product costs through improved supply chain management, including increased direct purchasing from publishers, which together more than offset the impact aggressive product pricing and lower music and video margins. Gross margin decreased due combination lower prices and lower overall shipping margins, partially offset improvements product cost. The Company believes that offering its customers attractive prices essential component its business strategy. Accordingly, the Company offers everyday discounts % hundreds thousands titles and certain "special value" editions discounted %. The Company may the future expand increase the discounts offers its customers and may otherwise alter its pricing structure and policies. The Company over time intends expand its operations promoting new complementary products sales formats and expanding the breadth and depth its product and service offerings. Gross margins attributable new business areas may lower than those associated with the Company\' existing business activities. particular, June the Company launched its new music store and November launched video store. Music and video gross margins are lower than book gross margins. the extent music and video become larger portion the Company\' product mix, expected have proportionate impact overall product gross margin. Marketing and Sales % CHANGE % CHANGE -------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Marketing and sales............. $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales......... % % % Marketing and sales expenses consist primarily advertising, promotional and public relations expenditures, well payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, selling and fulfillment activities. All fulfillment costs not included cost sales, including the cost operating and staffing distribution centers and customer service, are included marketing and sales. The Company expects its costs fulfillment increase based primarily anticipated sales growth and its planned distribution network expansion. Marketing and sales expenses increased and primarily due increases the Company\' advertising and promotional expenditures, increased payroll and related costs associated with fulfilling customer demand and increased credit card fees resulting from higher sales. The increase was also attributable the entry into music and video sales and the launch new stores Germany and the United Kingdom. Marketing and sales expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. The Company intends continue pursue its aggressive branding and marketing campaign, which includes radio, television and print advertising and significant expenditures for online promotion and advertising relationships. addition, the Company intends increase investments marketing, promotion and fulfillment activities related its product, service and international expansion. result the foregoing, the Company expects marketing and sales expenses increase significantly absolute dollars. Product Development % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------- -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Product development.............. $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales.......... % % % Product development expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs acquired content, including freelance reviews. The increases product development expenses and were primarily attributable increased staffing and costs related continual feature, content and functionality enhancements the Company\' Web sites and transaction-processing systems, well increased investment systems and telecommunications infrastructure. Such increases included investments associated with the entry into music and video sales, the launch enhanced holiday gift store, new stores Germany and the United Kingdom and operating expenses associated with the acquired entities. Product development expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. date, product development costs have been expensed incurred. The Company believes that continued investment product development critical attaining its strategic objectives. addition ongoing investments its Web stores and infrastructure, the Company intends increase investments products, services and international expansion. result, the Company expects product development expenses increase significantly absolute dollars. General and Administrative % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) General and administrative........ $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales........... % % % General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. The and increases general and administrative expenses were primarily result increased salaries and related expenses associated with the hiring additional personnel and legal and other professional fees related the Company\' growth. , additional expenses were incurred associated with the acquired entities and the related international expansion and expanded activities. Beginning , general and administrative costs have included costs attributable being public company. General and administrative expenses decreased percentage net sales due the significant increase net sales. The Company expects general and administrative expenses increase absolute dollars the Company expands its staff and incurs additional costs related the growth its business, including investments associated with products, services and international expansion. Merger and Acquisition Related Costs, Including Amortization Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangibles Merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles, were approximately $ million % net sales . These costs were recorded connection with the Company\' April acquisitions three Internet companies and its August acquisition Junglee. These acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method accounting. Additionally, certain transaction costs were incurred connection with the August merger with PlanetAll, which was accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. Merger and acquisition related costs consist amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles approximately $ million, well approximately $ million, composed primarily equity loss investee and other merger and acquisition related costs. The Company anticipates that future amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles associated with its acquisitions will continue amortized straight-line basis over lives approximately three years, and will amount approximately $ million per quarter until March and approximately $ million per quarter thereafter until the related goodwill and other purchased intangibles are fully amortized. likely that the Company will continue expand its business through acquisitions and internal development. Any additional acquisitions impairment goodwill and other purchased intangibles, well equity losses equity investees, could result additional merger and acquisition related costs. Interest Income and Expense % CHANGE % CHANGE ------- -------- ------ -------- ---- ( THOUSANDS) Interest income..................... $ , % $ , % $ Interest expense.................... ( , ) ( ) ( ) Interest income cash and marketable securities increased due higher investment balances resulting from the proceeds from the Senior Discount Notes issued May , and due higher investment balances resulting from the proceeds the Company\' initial public offering May . Interest expense includes interest and amortization deferred charges related the Senior Discount Notes. Interest expense and consists interest and amortization deferred charges related the Company\' $ million three-year senior secured term loan (the "Senior Loan") entered into December , well asset acquisitions financed through loans and capital leases. , interest expense also includes the write-off $ million unamortized loan fees following prepayment the Senior Loan May . The Company expects interest expense increase the future result the Senior Discount Notes, the Convertible Notes and potentially increased financing asset acquisitions through loans and capital leases. The Company also expects interest income increase because higher cash balances resulting from the net proceeds the Convertible Notes. Income Taxes The Company did not provide any current deferred . federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because has experienced operating losses since inception. Utilization the Company\' net operating loss carryforwards, which begin expire , may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended. The Company has provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. PRO FORMA INFORMATION April , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock three Internet companies. Each the acquisitions was accounted for under the purchase method accounting. The aggregate purchase price the three acquisitions, plus related charges, was approximately $ million. The consideration for the acquisitions was comprised common stock and cash. The Company issued aggregate approximately million shares common stock affect the transactions. The Company amortizing the goodwill resulting from the acquisitions straight-line basis over approximately two years. August , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock Junglee. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options and warrants connection with the acquisition Junglee. The Junglee acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method accounting, with substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. August , the Company exchanged common stock and options for all the outstanding capital stock PlanetAll. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options connection with the merger. The PlanetAll merger was accounted for pooling interests and, result, the Company\' consolidated financial statements have been restated for all periods presented. December , , the Company has investment approximately % drugstore com, inc., online drugstore, that accounted for under the equity method accounting. Under the equity method accounting, the Company\' share the investee\' earnings loss included consolidated operating results. The Company\' basis its equity investment classified within other purchased intangibles the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the Company\' share the investee\' loss classified merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles. date, this investment has not materially impacted the Company\' results operations its financial position. Pro forma information regarding the Company\' results, excluding approximately $ million merger and acquisition related costs, which include amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles, for the business combinations discussed above, well the Company\' share losses from its investee, follows: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------- ( THOUSANDS) Pro forma loss from operations.............................. $( , ) Pro forma net loss.......................................... $( , ) Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share.................. $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share..................................................... , The pro forma results for the year ended December , are presented for informational purposes only and are not prepared accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES December , , the Company\' cash was $ million, compared $ million December , . Marketable securities balances, which include highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, were $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Net cash provided operating activities $ million and $ , for the years ended December , and , respectively, was primarily attributable increases accounts payable, other liabilities and accrued expenses, accrued advertising and non-cash expenses, largely offset the net loss and increases inventories and prepaid expenses and other. Net cash used investing activities was $ million for the year ended December , and consisted net purchases marketable securities, purchases fixed assets, and acquisitions, dispositions and investments businesses. For the year ended December , , net cash used investing activities was $ million and consisted net purchases marketable securities and purchases fixed assets. Net cash provided financing activities $ million for the year ended December , resulted from net proceeds approximately $ million from the Senior Discount Notes offering, net proceeds approximately $ million from PlanetAll\' issuance capital stock, and proceeds from the exercise stock options $ million, partially offset the repayment the Senior Loan. Net cash provided financing activities $ million for the year ended December , resulted primarily from net proceeds from the Senior Loan, the Company\' initial public offering and PlanetAll\' issuance capital stock. December , , the Company\' principal sources liquidity consisted $ million cash and marketable securities. that date, the Company\' principal commitments consisted obligations outstanding under its Senior Discount Notes, obligations connection with the acquisition fixed assets, operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements. The Company anticipates substantial increase its capital expenditures and lease commitments consistent with anticipated growth operations, infrastructure and personnel, including growth associated with product and service offerings, geographic expansion and integration business combinations. For example, August , the Company entered into long-term office lease, which will result increased lease obligations commencing , and, December , the Company leased highly mechanized distribution facility Fernley, Nevada, which expected begin operations . Bringing these facilities operational readiness will require significant leasehold improvement and capital expenditures, and require the Company stock inventories, purchase fixed assets and hire and train employees. The Company intends establish one more additional distribution centers within the next months, which would require commit lease obligations, stock inventories, purchase fixed assets, hire and train employees and install leasehold improvements. addition, the Company has announced plans continue developing distribution infrastructure increase efficiency and support greater customer demand and increase its inventory provide better availability customers and achieve purchasing efficiencies. Senior Discount Notes May , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds the Senior Discount Notes. Pursuant registration statement Form - , September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Exchange Notes"), which were registered under the Securities Act , amended (the "Securities Act"), for all outstanding Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout this Annual Report interchangeably with the Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the original Senior Discount Notes (the "Senior Notes Indenture"). The Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the $ million aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest the rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Senior Notes Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. Upon Change Control ( defined the Senior Notes Indenture), the Company would required make offer purchase the Senior Discount Notes purchase price equal % their Accreted Value the date purchase, plus accrued interest, any. There can assurance that the Company would have sufficient funds available the time any Change Control make any required debt repayment (including repurchases the Senior Discount Notes). The Senior Notes Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries ( defined the Senior Notes Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all financial covenants December , . Convertible Subordinated Notes February , the Company completed offering approximately $ billion the Convertible Notes. Interest payments the Convertible Notes % per annum are due and payable semiannually arrears cash February and August each year, commencing August , . The Convertible Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness defined the indenture governing the Convertible Notes (the "Convertible Notes Indenture"). The Convertible Notes are generally convertible into common stock the Company, unless redeemed repaid prior maturity, conversion price $ per share. The Convertible Notes may redeemed the Company (the "Provisional Redemption"), whole part, any time prior February , , redemption price equal $ , per Convertible Note redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, any, the date redemption (the "Provisional Redemption Date") ( ) the closing price the common stock shall have exceeded % the conversion price then effect for least trading days any consecutive -trading day period and ( ) the shelf registration statement covering resales the Convertible Notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion the Convertible Notes effective and available for use and expected remain effective and available for use for the days following the Provisional Redemption Date. Upon any Provisional Redemption, the Company will make additional payment cash with respect the Convertible Notes called for redemption amount equal $ per $ , Convertible Note, less the amount any interest actually paid such Convertible Note prior the call for redemption. The Company must make these payments all the Convertible Notes called for redemption, including Convertible Notes called after the date the call for redemption. After February , , the Convertible Notes will redeemable least days\' notice the option the Company, whole part, any time, the redemption prices set forth the Convertible Notes Indenture. Upon occurrence any Fundamental Change ( defined the Convertible Notes Indenture) prior the maturity the Convertible Notes, each holder the Convertible Notes has the right require the Company redeem all any part the holder\' Convertible Notes price equal % the principal amount, plus any accrued interest, the Convertible Notes being redeemed. The Company will, for the benefit the holders, file with the Securities and Exchange Commission soon practicable, but any event within days after the first date original issuance the Convertible Notes, shelf registration statement covering resales the Convertible Notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion the Convertible Notes. The Company has may use the net proceeds from the offering the Convertible Notes for general corporate purposes, including working capital fund anticipated operating losses, the expansion the Company\' core business, investments new business segments and markets, capital expenditures, acquisitions investments complementary businesses, products and technologies and repurchases and retirement debt. The Company believes that current cash and marketable securities balances, together with net proceeds from the Convertible Notes, will sufficient meet its anticipated cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. current cash, marketable securities and cash that may generated from operations are insufficient satisfy the Company\' liquidity requirements, the Company may seek sell additional equity debt securities obtain line credit. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities could result additional dilution the Company\' stockholders. addition, the Company will, from time time, consider the acquisition investment complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the repurchase and retirement debt, which might impact the Company\' liquidity requirements cause the Company issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that financing will available amounts terms acceptable the Company, all. YEAR IMPLICATIONS Many current installed computer systems and software may coded accept only two-digit entries the date code field and cannot distinguish 21st century dates from 20th century dates. result, many software and computer systems may need upgraded replaced. The Company the process assessing the Year issue and expects complete the program the second quarter . The Company has not incurred material costs date the process, and does not believe that the cost additional actions will have material effect its operating results financial condition. However, the Company has established budget totaling approximately $ million for the acquisition contract software services that will assist the Year assessment and remediation activities completed later than the third quarter . Amazon com\' current systems and products may contain undetected errors defects with Year date functions that may result material costs. addition, the Company utilizes third-party equipment, software and content, including non-information technology systems, such security systems, building equipment and embedded micro-controllers that may not Year compliant. The Company the process developing plan assess whether its internally developed software, third-party systems and non-information technology systems are adequately addressing the Year issue. Failure third-party equipment, software content operate properly with regard the Year issue could require the Company incur unanticipated expenses remedy problems, which could have material adverse effect its business, operating results and financial condition. Amazon com assessing whether third parties its supply and distribution chain are adequately addressing their Year compliance issues. The Company has initiated formal communications with its significant suppliers and service providers determine the extent which its systems may vulnerable such suppliers and providers fail address and correct their own Year issues. The Company cannot guarantee that the systems suppliers other companies which the Company relies will Year compliant. The Company the process developing contingency plan that will address situations that may result should Year compliance for critical operations not fully achieved . ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company does not have any derivative financial instruments December , . However, the Company exposed interest rate risk. The Company employs established policies and procedures manage its exposure changes the market risk its marketable securities, which are classified available-for-sale December , . The Company\' Senior Discount Notes, Convertible Notes and other long-term debt have fixed interest rates and the fair value these instruments affected changes market interest rates. The Company believes that the market risk arising from holdings its financial instruments not material. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources." The table below provides information about the Company\' marketable securities, including principal cash flows for through and the related weighted average interest rates. Principal (notional) amounts expected maturity . dollars ( thousands): ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE DECEMBER , THEREAFTER TOTAL -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ---------- -------- -------------- Commercial paper and short-term obligations...................... $ , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate..... % % Corporate notes and bonds.......... , , -- -- -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate..... % % % Asset-backed and agency securities....................... -- , , , , , , , Weighted average interest rate..... % % % % % % Treasury notes and bonds........... , , , , -- -- , , Weighted average interest rate..... % % % % % -------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- Total Portfolio, excluding equity securities............ $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ======== ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= ======== ======== ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE ---- Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors........... Consolidated Balance Sheets................................. Consolidated Statements Operations....................... Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity............. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows....................... Notes Consolidated Financial Statements.................. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item ( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. ERNST & YOUNG LLP Seattle, Washington January , , except for Note which the date February , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) ASSETS DECEMBER , -------------------- -------- -------- Current assets: Cash...................................................... $ , $ , Marketable securities..................................... , , Inventories............................................... , , Prepaid expenses and other................................ , , -------- -------- Total current assets.............................. , , Fixed assets, net........................................... , , Deposits and other.......................................... Goodwill and other purchased intangibles, net............... , -- Deferred charges............................................ , , -------- -------- Total assets...................................... $ , $ , ======== ======== LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable.......................................... $ , $ , Accrued advertising....................................... , , Other liabilities and accrued expenses.................... , , Current portion long-term debt......................... , -------- -------- Total current liabilities......................... , , Long-term debt.............................................. , , Long-term portion capital lease obligation............... Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , Issued and outstanding shares -- none..................... -- -- Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares -- , Issued and outstanding shares -- , and , shares and , respectively.................. , , Additional paid- capital.................................. , , Note receivable from officer for common stock............... ( , ) -- Deferred compensation....................................... ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income...................... , -- Accumulated deficit......................................... ( , ) ( , ) -------- -------- Total stockholders\' equity........................ , , -------- -------- Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity........ $ , $ , ======== ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------------------- --------- -------- -------- Net sales................................................. $ , $ , $ , Cost sales............................................. , , , --------- -------- -------- Gross profit......................................... , , , Operating expenses: Marketing and sales..................................... , , , Product development..................................... , , , General and administrative.............................. , , , Merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles.......................................... , -- -- --------- -------- -------- Total operating expenses........................ , , , --------- -------- -------- Loss from operations...................................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest income........................................... , , Interest expense.......................................... ( , ) ( ) ( ) --------- -------- -------- Net interest income (expense)........................ ( , ) , --------- -------- -------- Net loss.................................................. $( , ) $( , ) $ ( , ) ========= ======== ======== Basic and diluted loss per share.......................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======== Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................................... , , , ========= ======== ======== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( THOUSANDS) PREFERRED ADVANCES NOTE RECEIVABLE STOCK COMMON STOCK RECEIVED FOR ADDITIONAL FROM OFFICER --------------- ---------------- COMMON PAID- FOR DEFERRED SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT STOCK CAPITAL COMMON STOCK COMPENSATION ------ ------ ------- ------ ------------ ---------- --------------- ------------ Balance January , .................... -- $-- , $ , $ $ -- $ -- $ -- Net loss................ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Reincorporation Delaware.............. -- -- -- ( ) -- -- -- Sale preferred stock, net $ issuance costs................. -- -- -- , -- -- Sale common stock.... -- -- , ( ) -- -- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- -- -- -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , -- -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ---- -- ------- ------ ---- -------- ------- ------- Balance December , .................... , -- , -- ( ) Net loss................ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Sale preferred stock................. -- -- -- -- -- -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs................. -- -- , -- , -- -- Conversion preferred stock into common stock................. ( ) ( ) , -- ( ) -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued product development........... -- -- , -- , -- -- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , -- , -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , -- -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) -- , ---- -- ------- ------ ---- -------- ------- ------- Balance December , .................... -- -- , , -- , -- ( , ) Net loss................ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation losses.... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Unrealized gain marketable securities............ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Comprehensive loss....... Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , -- , -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , -- , -- -- Note receivable from officer for common stock................. -- -- -- -- -- -- ( , ) -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- -- -- , -- ( , ) Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- -- -- -- -- -- , ---- -- ------- ------ ---- -------- ------- ------- Balance December , .................... -- $-- , $ , $ -- $ , $( , ) $( , ) ==== == ======= ====== ==== ======== ======= ======= ACCUMULATED OTHER TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE ACCUMULATED STOCKHOLDERS\' INCOME DEFICIT EQUITY ------------- ----------- ------------- Balance January , .................... $ -- $ ( ) $ Net loss................ -- ( , ) ( , ) Reincorporation Delaware.............. -- -- -- Sale preferred stock, net $ issuance costs................. -- -- , Sale common stock.... -- -- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- Exercise common stock options............... -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- ------ --------- --------- Balance December , .................... -- ( , ) , Net loss................ -- ( , ) ( , ) Sale preferred stock................. -- -- Public stock offering, net $ , issuance costs................. -- -- , Conversion preferred stock into common stock................. -- -- -- Issuance common stock for fixed assets and accrued product development........... -- -- , Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , Exercise common stock options............... -- -- Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- , ------ --------- --------- Balance December , .................... -- ( , ) , --------- Net loss................ -- ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation losses.... ( ) -- ( ) Unrealized gain marketable securities............ , -- , --------- Comprehensive loss....... ( , ) --------- Issuance capital stock................. -- -- , Exercise common stock options............... -- -- , Note receivable from officer for common stock................. -- -- ( , ) Deferred compensation related stock options............... -- -- -- Amortization deferred compensation related stock options...... -- -- , ------ --------- --------- Balance December , .................... $ , $( , ) $ , ====== ========= ========= See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( THOUSANDS) YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , --------------------------------- --------- --------- ------- OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net loss.................................................. $( , ) $ ( , ) $( , ) Adjustments reconcile net loss net cash provided (used ) operating activities: Depreciation and amortization........................... , , Amortization deferred compensation related stock options.............................................. , , -- Non-cash merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles.......................................... , -- -- Non-cash interest expense............................... , -- Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories............................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Prepaid expenses and other.............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Deposits and other...................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable........................................ , , , Accrued advertising..................................... , , Other liabilities and accrued expenses.................. , , , --------- --------- ------- Net cash provided (used ) operating activities..... , ( , ) INVESTING ACTIVITIES Maturities marketable securities....................... , , -- Purchases marketable securities........................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets................................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisitions, dispositions, and investments businesses.............................................. ( , ) -- -- --------- --------- ------- Net cash used investing activities........... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net proceeds from initial public offering................. -- , -- Proceeds from exercise stock options................... , Proceeds from issuance capital stock................... , , , Proceeds from long-term debt.............................. , , -- Repayment long-term debt............................... ( , ) ( ) -- Financing costs........................................... ( , ) ( , ) -- --------- --------- ------- Net cash provided financing activities....... , , , Effect exchange rate changes........................... ( ) -- -- --------- --------- ------- Net increase cash...................................... , , Cash beginning period............................... , --------- --------- ------- Cash end period..................................... $ , $ , $ ========= ========= ======= SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION Common stock issued connection with acquisitions....... $ , $ -- $ -- Common stock issued for fixed assets and accrued product development............................................. $ -- $ , $ -- Fixed assets acquired under capital lease................. $ -- $ $ -- Fixed assets acquired under financing agreement........... $ -- $ , $ -- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE -- ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Inc. ("Amazon com" the "Company"), Internet retailer, was incorporated July and opened its virtual doors the Web July . Amazon com offers book, music , video, DVD, computer game and other titles its Web sites. Business Combinations and Investments For business combinations which have been accounted for under the purchase method accounting, the Company includes the results operations the acquired business from the date acquisition. Net assets the companies acquired are recorded their fair value the date acquisition. The excess the purchase price over the fair value net assets acquired included goodwill and other purchased intangibles the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Other business combinations are accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. such cases, the assets, liabilities and stockholders\' equity the acquired entities are combined with the Company\' respective accounts recorded values. The consolidated financial statements reflect the restatement all periods presented include the accounts merged entities accounted for under the pooling interests method accounting. The historical results the pooled entities reflect each their actual operating cost structures and, result, not necessarily reflect the cost structure the newly combined entity. The historical results not purport indicative future results. Investments affiliated entities which the Company has the ability exercise significant influence investee, generally % greater ownership interest the voting stock, are accounted for under the equity method accounting. Under the equity method accounting, the Company\' share the investee\' earnings loss included consolidated operating results. All other investments, for which the Company does not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method accounting. Dividends and other distributions earnings from other investees, any, are included income when declared. The Company periodically evaluates the carrying value its investments accounted for under the cost method accounting and December , , such investments were recorded the lower cost estimated net realizable value. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities and disclosure contingent assets and liabilities the date the financial statements and the reported amounts revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Marketable Securities The Company\' marketable securities consist primarily high-quality short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds, are classified available-for-sale and are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reported, net taxes, component AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) stockholders\' equity within accumulated other comprehensive income. Unrealized losses are charged against income when decline fair value determined other than temporary. The specific identification method used determine the cost securities sold. The Company classifies all investments cash marketable securities, including highly liquid investments with maturities three months less, and reflects the related cash flows investing cash flows. result the classification highly liquid investments within marketable securities, significant portion the Company\' gross marketable securities purchases and maturities disclosed investing cash flows related highly liquid investments. Inventories Inventories are valued the lower cost market. The Company purchases majority its products from three major vendors, Ingram Book Group ("Ingram"), Baker & Taylor, Inc. and Valley Media Inc. late , Barnes & Noble announced agreement purchase Ingram. Ingram the Company\' single largest supplier and accounted for approximately % and approximately % the Company\' inventory purchases and , respectively. The Company does not have long-term contracts arrangements with most its vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. The Company\' current vendors may stop selling merchandise the Company acceptable terms. The Company may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally one ten years). Fixed assets purchased under capital leases are amortized straight-line basis over the lesser the estimated useful life the asset the lease term. Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangibles Goodwill and other purchased intangibles represent the excess the purchase price over the fair value assets acquired. Total goodwill approximately $ million and other purchased intangibles approximately $ million are stated net total accumulated amortization $ million December , the accompanying balance sheet. Goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangibles are being amortized straight-line basis over lives ranging from two three years. Long-Lived Assets accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed , the carrying value intangible assets and other long-lived assets reviewed regular basis for the existence facts circumstances, both internally and externally, that may suggest impairment. date, such impairment has been indicated. Should there impairment the future, the Company will measure the amount the impairment based undiscounted expected future cash flows from the impaired assets. The cash flow estimates that will used will contain management\' best estimates, using appropriate and customary assumptions and projections the time. Fair Value Financial Instruments The carrying amounts for the Company\' cash, prepaid expenses and other, deposits and other, accounts payable, accrued advertising, and other liabilities and accrued expenses approximate fair value. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The fair market value for long-term debt and marketable securities based quoted market prices where available. Deferred Charges May , the Company issued approximately $ million gross proceeds % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Senior Discount Notes"). December , , deferred charges consisted fees associated with the issuance the Senior Discount Notes. The fees are being amortized into interest expense over the life the Senior Discount Notes. Income Taxes The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected effect when the differences are expected recovered. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue from product sales, net any discounts, when the products are shipped customers. Outbound shipping and handling charges are included net sales. Revenue from gift certificates recognized upon product shipment following redemption. The Company provides allowance for sales returns, which has been insignificant, based historical experience. Advertising Costs The cost advertising expensed incurred. For the years ended December , , and , the Company incurred advertising expense $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Product Development Product development expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants, systems and telecommunications infrastructure and costs acquired content. date, all product development costs have been expensed incurred. Merger and Acquisition Related Costs Merger and acquisition related costs consist primarily amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles approximately $ million, well approximately $ million, composed primarily equity loss investee and other merger and acquisition related costs. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees ("APB . "), and related interpretations, accounting for its employee stock options rather than the alternative fair value accounting allowed SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. APB . provides that the compensation expense relative the Company\' employee stock options measured based the intrinsic value the stock option. SFAS . requires companies that continue follow APB . provide pro forma disclosure the impact applying the fair value method SFAS . . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Foreign Currency Translation The functional currency the Company\' foreign subsidiaries the local currency. Assets and liabilities the foreign subsidiaries are translated into . dollars year end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are included accumulated other comprehensive income, separate component stockholders\' equity. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved, which have been insignificant, are included the consolidated statements operations. date, the Company has entered into foreign currency exchange contracts other such derivative instruments. Segment and Geographic Information The Company operates one principal business segment across domestic and international markets. International sales, including export sales from the United States, represented approximately %, %, and % net sales for the years ended December , , and , respectively. foreign country geographic area accounted for more than % net sales any the periods presented. There were transfers between geographic areas during the years ended December , and . Substantially all the domestic operating results and identifiable assets are the United States. Concentrations Credit Risk Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company concentrations credit risk, consist principally its holdings cash and marketable securities. The Company\' credit risk managed investing its cash and marketable securities high-quality money market instruments and securities the . government and its agencies, foreign governments and high-quality corporate issuers. December , , the Company has significant concentrations credit risk. Earnings (Loss) Per Share Basic earnings per share excludes any dilutive effects options, warrants and convertible securities. Basic earnings per share computed using the weighted-average number common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed using the weighted-average number common and common stock equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation their effect antidilutive. result the Company\' initial public offering May , all preferred stock automatically converted into common stock. Accordingly, the and net loss per share pro forma loss per share based the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding and preferred stock " " converted basis outstanding during each period. The Company believes that this more meaningful presentation earnings per share for periods prior its initial public offering. Comprehensive Income (Loss) January , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Reporting Comprehensive Income, which establishes standards for the reporting and display comprehensive income and its components the financial statements. The only items comprehensive income (loss) that the Company currently reports are unrealized gains (losses) marketable securities and foreign currency translation adjustments. New Accounting Pronouncements March , the Accounting Standards Executive Committee issued Statement Position - ("SOP - "), Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) SOP - requires all costs related the development internal use software other than those incurred during the application development stage expensed incurred. Costs incurred during the application development stage are required capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software. SOP - effective for the Company\' fiscal year ending December , . Adoption not expected have material effect the Company\' consolidated financial statements the Company\' policies are substantially compliance with SOP - . April , the American Institute Certified Public Accountants issued SOP - , Reporting the Costs Start- Activities. SOP - effective for the Company\' fiscal year ending December , . SOP - requires costs start- activities and organization costs expensed incurred. Adoption not expected have material effect the Company\' consolidated financial statements. June , the FASB issued SFAS . Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS . effective for fiscal years beginning after June , . SFAS . requires that all derivative instruments recorded the balance sheet their fair value. Changes the fair value derivatives are recorded each period current earnings other comprehensive income, depending whether derivative designed part hedge transaction and, , the type hedge transaction. The Company does not expect that the adoption SFAS . will have material impact its consolidated financial statements because the Company does not currently hold any derivative instruments. Reclassifications Certain prior year balances have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. NOTE -- BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND INVESTMENTS April , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock three international Internet companies. The aggregate purchase price the three acquisitions, plus related charges, was approximately $ million. The consideration for the acquisitions was comprised common stock and cash. The Company issued aggregate approximately million shares common stock effect the transactions. The goodwill and other purchased intangibles are being amortized straight-line basis over two years. August , the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock Junglee Corp. ("Junglee"). Junglee leading provider Web-based virtual database technology which allows visitors access variety products sold other merchants. The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options and warrants connection with the acquisition Junglee. The Junglee acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method accounting, with substantially all the approximately $ million purchase price allocated goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The goodwill and substantially all other purchased intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over lives averaging approximately three years. November , the Company sold the employment business unit Junglee exchange for cash and approximately million shares the purchaser\' common stock. There was gain loss recorded from this sale. The investment recorded cost and classified within marketable securities the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The pro forma combined consolidated financial information for the aggregate all the business combinations described above and accounted for under the purchase method accounting, though the acquisitions had occurred January each year, would have resulted net sales $ million and $ million; net loss $ million and $ million; and basic and diluted loss per share $ and $ for the years ended December , and , respectively. The pro forma net loss includes amortization goodwill and purchased intangibles $ million for the years ended December , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) and . This unaudited pro forma combined consolidated financial information presented for illustrative purposes only and not necessarily indicative the consolidated results operations future periods the results that actually would have been realized had Amazon com, the international subsidiaries and Junglee been combined company during the specified periods. August , the Company exchanged common stock and options for all the outstanding capital stock Sage Enterprises, Inc. ("PlanetAll"). The Company issued approximately million shares common stock and assumed all outstanding options connection with the merger. The PlanetAll merger was accounted for pooling interests and, result, the Company\' consolidated financial statements have been restated for all periods presented. PlanetAll issued approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million and approximately , shares capital stock for proceeds approximately $ million January and April , respectively. Net sales for PlanetAll were not significant and net loss was $ million, $ million and $ , for the nine months ended September , and the years ended December , and , respectively, which represent separate results the combined entity through the periods preceding the merger. There were significant intercompany transactions between the two companies and significant conforming accounting adjustments. December , , the Company has investment approximately % drugstore com, inc., online drugstore, that accounted for under the equity method accounting. The Company\' basis its equity investment classified within other purchased intangibles the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the Company\' share the investee\' loss classified merger and acquisition related costs, including amortization goodwill and other purchased intangibles. date, this investment has not materially impacted the Company\' results operations its financial position. NOTE -- MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize major security type the Company\' marketable securities and their contractual maturities: DECEMBER , --------------------------------------------------- GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED ESTIMATED COST GAINS LOSSES FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Commercial paper and short-term obligations........................... $ , $ $ -- $ , Corporate notes and bonds............... , ( ) , Asset-backed and agency securities...... , ( ) , Treasury notes and bonds................ , ( ) , Equity securities....................... , , -- , -------- ------ ----- -------- $ , $ , $( ) $ , ======== ====== ===== ======== AMORTIZED ESTIMATED COST FAIR VALUE --------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) Due within one year.................................... $ , $ , Due after one year through five years.................. , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities........................................... , , Equity securities...................................... , , -------- -------- $ , $ , ======== ======== AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The gross realized gains and losses sales available-for-sale securities were not significant for the year ended December , . The net adjustment unrealized holding gains available-for-sale securities included accumulated other comprehensive income component stockholders\' equity totaled approximately $ million. December , , marketable securities consist primarily commercial paper and short-term obligations and corporate notes and bonds and were carried cost, which approximates market. Unrealized holding gains and losses December , were not significant. NOTE -- FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consist the following: DECEMBER , ----------------- ------- ------ ( THOUSANDS) Computers and equipment........................... $ , $ , Purchased software................................ , , Leasehold improvements............................ , Leased assets..................................... ------- ------ , , Less accumulated depreciation and amortization.... , , ------- ------ Fixed assets, net............................ $ , $ , ======= ====== NOTE -- LONG-TERM DEBT Senior Discount Notes May , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million gross proceeds the Senior Discount Notes due May , . Pursuant registration statement Form - September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (the "Exchange Notes"), which were registered under the Securities Act , amended, for all outstanding Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout these notes consolidated financial statements interchangeably with the Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the original Senior Discount Notes (the "Indenture"). The Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the $ million aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. The Senior Discount Notes are senior unsecured indebtedness the Company ranking pari passu with the Company\' existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness and senior right payment all subordinated indebtedness the Company. The Senior Discount Notes are effectively subordinated all secured indebtedness and all existing and future liabilities the Company\' subsidiaries. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries ( defined the Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all financial covenants December , . portion the net proceeds from the offering the Senior Discount Notes was used retire approximately $ million indebtedness outstanding December , . Future principal payments related the Senior Discount Notes not commence until . The carrying amount the Senior Discount Notes approximately $ million December , , which approximates fair value. Financing Agreement for Purchase Fixed Assets November , the Company purchased fixed assets through financing agreement with vendor having imputed interest rate approximately % and term three years. The debt repaid four equal payments. Future debt payments related this financing agreement are $ , and $ , for the years ending December , and , respectively, and none thereafter. NOTE -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Leases and Marketing Agreements The Company currently leases office and distribution center facilities and fixed assets under noncancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for , and was $ million, $ million and $ , , respectively. The Company has also entered into certain marketing agreements, which include fixed fees through . The costs associated with these agreements are recognized systematic basis over the term the related agreements services are received. Future minimum commitments are follows: OPERATING LEASES AND CAPITAL MARKETING LEASES AGREEMENTS ------- ---------- ( THOUSANDS) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , .............................................. $ $ , .............................................. , .............................................. -- , .............................................. -- , .............................................. -- , Thereafter........................................ -- , ---- -------- Total minimum lease payments........................... $ $ , ======== Less imputed interest.................................. ---- Present value net minimum lease payments............ Less current portion.............................. ---- Long-term capital lease obligation..................... $ ==== AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Legal Proceedings October , Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Wal-Mart") filed lawsuit Bentonville, Arkansas against the Company and other defendants alleging actual and threatened misappropriation trade secrets and ancillary common-law claims. Wal-Mart subsequently requested temporary restraining order preventing the defendants from misappropriating Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets, from placing employees positions which they would "inevitably disclose" Wal-Mart\' alleged trade secrets and from soliciting, inducing recruiting Wal-Mart employees. January , Wal-Mart filed identical action Seattle, Washington, and the Arkansas court dismissed Wal-Mart\' action jurisdictional grounds before deciding the temporary restraining order. The dismissal pending appeal. Wal-Mart has advised the Company that will file preliminary injunction motion. addition injunctive relief, Wal-Mart has requested compensatory damages, pre- and postjudgment interest and attorneys\' fees and costs. The Company believes that Wal-Mart\' claims are without merit and intends vigorously defend against the plaintiffs\' claims. Amazon com has filed counterclaim based part unfair competition and intentional interference. Litigation inherently uncertain, and there can assurance that the Company will prevail the lawsuit. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. NOTE -- STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Reincorporation and Authorized Capital May , the Company reincorporated the state Delaware with authorized capital million shares $ par value preferred stock and million shares $ par value common stock. April , the Company increased its authorized common stock million shares and increased its authorized preferred stock million shares. June , the Company increased the number authorized shares common stock, from million shares million shares. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restated reflect these recapitalizations. Preferred Stock June , the Company issued , shares Series convertible preferred stock price $ per share. January and February , the Company sold additional , shares Series preferred stock $ per share. The preferred stock was convertible into common stock the option the holder, any time, effective rate shares common stock for one share preferred stock. the closing the Company\' initial public offering, all the preferred stock outstanding was converted into aggregate , , shares common stock. Common Stock November , , the Company effected -for- common stock split. April , , the Company effected -for- common stock split. May , , the Company completed initial public offering million shares its common stock. Net proceeds the Company aggregated $ million. June , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend stockholders record May , . January , , the Company effected -for- stock split the form stock dividend the stockholders record December , . Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restated reflect these stock splits. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Stock Option Plans The Company\' stock option plans consist the Stock Option Plan and the Stock Option Plan. Shares reserved under the plans consist million shares the Stock Option Plan and million shares the Stock Option Plan. Any shares common stock available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan that are not issued under that plan may added the aggregate number shares available for issuance under the Stock Option Plan. connection with the acquisition Junglee and the merger with PlanetAll August , the Company assumed outstanding options purchase common stock originally issued under these companies\' stock option plans. The Company\' stock options plans well the assumed stock option plans are hereby collectively referred the "Plans." Generally, options are granted the Company\' Board Directors exercise price not less than the fair market value the Company\' common stock the date grant. Each outstanding option granted prior December , has term five years from the date vesting. Each outstanding option granted subsequent December , has term ten years from the date grant. Subject Internal Revenue Service limitations, options granted under the Plans generally become exercisable immediately. Options generally vest the rate % after year one, % after year two and % the end each quarter for years three through five. Shares issued upon exercise options that are unvested are restricted and subject repurchase the Company upon termination employment services and such restrictions lapse over the original vesting schedule. December , , approximately million shares restricted common stock were subject repurchase. Stock Option Activity The following table summarizes the Company\' stock option activity: NUMBER WEIGHTED- AVERAGE SHARES EXERCISE PRICE -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) Balance January , ........................... , $ Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------ Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------ Balance December , ......................... , Options granted and assumed..................... , Options canceled................................ ( , ) Options exercised............................... ( , ) ------ Balance December , ......................... , $ ====== December , , million shares common stock were available for future grant under the Plans. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The following table summarizes information about options outstanding and exercisable December , : OPTIONS OUTSTANDING --------------------------------------------- WEIGHTED- OPTIONS EXERCISABLE AVERAGE ------------------------------- REMAINING WEIGHTED- WEIGHTED- RANGE OPTIONS CONTRACTUAL AVERAGE OPTIONS AVERAGE EXERCISE PRICES OUTSTANDING LIFE EXERCISE PRICE EXERCISABLE EXERCISE PRICE --------------- -------------- ----------- -------------- -------------- -------------- ( THOUSANDS) ( THOUSANDS) $ -- $ , years $ , $ -- , years , -- , years , -- , years , -- , years , -- years -- , years , -- , years , -- years -- years ------ ------ $ -- $ , years $ , $ ====== ====== Deferred Compensation The Company recorded aggregate deferred compensation $ million, $ million and $ , , and , respectively. The amounts recorded represent the difference between the grant price and the deemed fair value the Company\' common stock for shares subject options granted , and . Options granted below fair market value and the associated weighted average exercise price per share were , and $ , million and $ , and million and $ during the years ended December , , and , respectively. The amortization deferred compensation charged operations over the vesting period the options, which typically five years. Total amortization recognized and was $ million and $ million, respectively. amortization was recognized . Pro Forma Disclosure The Company follows the intrinsic value method accounting for its stock options. Had compensation cost been recognized based the fair value the date grant for options granted , and , the pro forma amounts the Company\' net loss and net loss per share for the years ended December , , and would have been follows: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------- ----------- ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported............................ $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) Net loss -- pro forma.............................. ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- reported.... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Basic and diluted loss per share -- pro forma...... ( ) ( ) ( ) AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) The fair value for each option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option pricing model, assuming expected dividends and the following weighted-average assumptions: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------- --------- -------- ------- Average risk-free interest rates................... % % % Average expected life ( years)................... Volatility ( )..................................... % % % - --------------- ( ) Options granted prior the Company\' initial public offering and PlanetAll prior its merger with the Company were valued using the minimum value method and therefore volatility was not applicable. The weighted-average fair value options granted during the years , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively, for options granted fair market value. The weighted-average fair value options granted less than fair market value during , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively. Compensation expense recognized providing pro forma disclosures may not representative the effects pro forma earnings for future years because SFAS . does not apply stock option grants made prior . Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance June , pursuant registration statement Form - , the Company registered million shares its common stock, which may from time time offered connection with the acquisition entities. Such shares may issued exchange for the shares capital stock ( merger otherwise), partnership interests other assets representing interest other companies other entities, exchange for assets used related the business such entities. December , , common stock reserved for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock options............................................... , Shelf registration.......................................... , ------ Total.................................................. , ====== NOTE -- EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE The following represents the calculations for net loss per share: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------- ----------- ---------- --------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net loss -- reported.................... $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ========= ======== ======= Weighted average shares outstanding........ , , , Pro forma adjustment for preferred stock... -- , , Weighted average common shares issued subject repurchase agreements......... ( , ) ( , ) ( ) --------- -------- ------- Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................... , , , ========= ======== ======= Basic and diluted loss per share........... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ========= ======== ======= AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) All the Company\' stock options (see Note ) are excluded from diluted loss per share since their effect antidilutive. NOTE -- INCOME TAXES The Company did not provide any current deferred United States federal, state foreign income tax provision benefit for any the periods presented because has experienced operating losses since inception. The Company has provided full valuation allowance the deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realizability. December , , the Company had net operating loss carryforwards approximately $ million related . federal, foreign and state jurisdictions. Utilization net operating loss carryforwards may subject certain limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code , amended. Substantially all these carryforwards will begin expire various times starting . the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, when realized, relate stock option deductions approximately $ million, the resulting benefits will credited stockholders\' equity. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets are approximately follows: DECEMBER , ------------------ ------- ------- ( THOUSANDS) Net operating loss carryforwards......................... $ , $ , Depreciation and amortization............................ , -- Other.................................................... , , ------- ------- Total deferred tax assets......................... , , Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets.............. ( , ) ( , ) ------- ------- Net deferred tax assets.................................. $ -- $ -- ======= ======= NOTE -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN The Company has ( ) savings plan covering substantially all its employees. Eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. The Company matches employees\' contributions the discretion the Company\' Board Directors. date, the Company has not matched employee contributions the ( ) savings plan. NOTE -- SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , the Company completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (the "Convertible Notes"). The Convertible Notes are convertible into the Company\' common stock conversion price $ per share, subject adjustment certain events and the holders\' option. Interest the Convertible Notes payable semiannually arrears February and August each year, commencing August , . The Convertible Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness ( defined the Convertible Notes indenture) the Company. The Convertible Notes may redeemed the option the Company prior February , , whole part, the redemption prices set forth the Convertible Notes indenture. The Company obligated file May , , shelf registration statement covering resales the Convertible Notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion the Convertible Notes. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) Upon occurrence any Fundamental Change ( defined the Convertible Notes indenture) prior the maturity the Convertible Notes, each holder the Convertible Notes has the right require the Company redeem all any part the holder\' Convertible Notes price equal % the principal amount, plus any accrued interest, the Convertible Notes being redeemed. The Company has may use the net proceeds from the offering the Convertible Notes for general corporate purposes, including working capital fund anticipated operating losses, the expansion the Company\' core business, investments new business segments and markets, capital expenditures, acquisitions investments complementary businesses, products and technologies and repurchases and retirement debt. Authorized Shares February , , the Board Directors approved increase authorized shares common stock and preferred stock, par value $ per share, from million shares billion shares and from million shares million shares, respectively. This increase authorized shares subject approval the stockholders the Company\' Annual Meeting May , . Stock Option Plan February , , the Board Directors approved the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, which reserves million shares common stock available for future issuance. NOTE -- QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited Statement Operations information for each quarter and . The Company believes that the following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share( )............. $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , YEAR ENDED DECEMBER , -------------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- ( THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Net sales....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit.................................... , , , , Net loss........................................ ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share................ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share................................ , , , , - --------------- ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. ITEM . CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information regarding the Company\' executive officers required Part III, Item , set forth Item Part herein under the caption "Executive Officers and Directors." Information required Part III, Item , regarding the Company\' directors included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. Information relating compliance with Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, set forth the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information required Part III, Item , included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT Information required Part III, Item , included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information regarding certain the Company\' relationships and related transactions included the Company\' Proxy Statement relating the Company\' annual meeting stockholders held May , , and incorporated herein reference. PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) LIST DOCUMENTS FILED PART THIS ANNUAL REPORT: ( ) INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Stockholders\' Equity for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) INDEX FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES: Schedule -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) INDEX EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Acquisition, Inc. and Junglee Corporation (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Pacific Acquisition, Inc. and Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Registration Rights Agreement entered into May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Junglee Corp. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Telebook, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed September , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Note Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors and Executive Officers (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Incentive Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Investor Rights Agreement, dated June , , and among the Company, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VIII, KPCB Information Sciences Zaibatsu Fund and Jeffrey . Bezos (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between the Company and McConnell Development, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). Lease Agreement, dated April , , and between Bookpages Limited and Amazon com, Inc. and Slough Trading Estate Limited (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended June , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and WRC COM Tower LLC (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). + Junglee Corp. Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed October , ). Lease Agreement, dated December , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and Panattoni Carlsen Rieger. List Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Financial Data Schedule. - --------------- + Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) REPORTS FORM - : October , , the Company filed Form - under Item , which amended the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , , regarding its acquisition Junglee Corp. October , , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing its financial results for the third quarter . November , , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing the approval the Board Directors -for- stock split its common stock. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this Report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. AMAZON COM, INC. Date: March , : / / JEFFREY . BEZOS ------------------------------------ Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this Report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities indicated. / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Chairman the Board, President and Chief - -------------------------------------------- Executive Officer (Principal Executive Jeffrey . Bezos Officer) / / JOY . COVEY Chief Financial Officer and Vice President - -------------------------------------------- Finance and Administration (Principal Joy . Covey Financial and Accounting Officer) / / TOM . ALBERG Director - -------------------------------------------- Tom . Alberg / / SCOTT . COOK Director - -------------------------------------------- Scott . Cook / / . JOHN DOERR Director - -------------------------------------------- . John Doerr / / PATRICIA . STONESIFER Director - -------------------------------------------- Patricia . Stonesifer AMAZON COM, INC. SCHEDULE -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS INVENTORY VALUATION ALLOWANCE CHARGED/ BALANCE (CREDITED) INVENTORY BALANCE BEGINNING COSTS DISPOSED END YEAR ENDED PERIOD AND EXPENSES WRITTEN OFF PERIOD ---------- ---------- ------------------- ------------ ---------- ( THOUSANDS) December , ............... $ $ , $( ) $ , ==== ====== ===== ====== December , ............... $ -- $ $ -- $ ==== ====== ===== ====== December , ............... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- ==== ====== ===== ====== INDEX EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Acquisition, Inc. and Junglee Corporation (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Agreement and Plan Merger dated August , , and among Amazon com, Inc., Pacific Acquisition, Inc. and Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Registration Rights Agreement entered into May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Junglee Corp. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Form Investor Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Sage Enterprises, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated August , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the former stockholders Telebook, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed September , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Note Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\' Current Report Form - dated February , ). + Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors and Executive Officers (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION - ------- ----------- + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Tom . Alberg (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Non-Qualified Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). + Incentive Stock Option Letter Agreement, effective December , , from the Company Joy . Covey (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Investor Rights Agreement, dated June , , and among the Company, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VIII, KPCB Information Sciences Zaibatsu Fund and Jeffrey . Bezos (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between the Company and McConnell Development, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). Lease Agreement, dated April , , and between Bookpages Limited and Amazon com, Inc. and Slough Trading Estate Limited (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended June , ). Lease Agreement, dated August , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and WRC COM Tower LLC (incorporated reference the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended September , ). + Junglee Corp. Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated reference the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed October , ). Lease Agreement, dated December , , and between Amazon com, Inc. and Panattoni Carlsen Rieger. List Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Financial Data Schedule. - --------------- + Executive Compensation Plan Agreemen', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}