{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background The Company designs, manufactures and markets smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories, and sells variety related services. The Company’ fiscal year the - -week period that ends the last Saturday September. Products iPhone iPhone ® the Company’ line smartphones based its iOS operating system. October and November , the Company released iPhone , iPhone mini, iPhone Pro and iPhone Pro Max, all with technology. September , the Company released iPhone , iPhone mini, iPhone Pro and iPhone Pro Max. Mac Mac ® the Company’ line personal computers based its macOS ® operating system. November , the Company released new versions MacBook Air ® , -inch MacBook Pro ® and Mac mini ® , and May , the Company released redesigned iMac ® , all powered the Apple chip. October , the Company released redesigned MacBook Pro, available - and -inch models and powered the Apple Pro Max chip. iPad iPad ® the Company’ line multipurpose tablets based its iPadOS ® operating system. October , the Company released new iPad Air ® , and April , the Company released new iPad Pro ® powered the Apple chip. September , the Company released updated iPad and new iPad mini ® . Wearables, Home and Accessories Wearables, Home and Accessories includes AirPods ® , Apple ® , Apple Watch ® , Beats ® products, HomePod ® , iPod touch ® and accessories. AirPods are the Company’ wireless headphones that interact with Siri ® . December , the Company released AirPods Max™, new over-ear wireless headphones, and October , the Company released the third generation AirPods. Apple Watch the Company’ line smart watches based its watchOS ® operating system. September , the Company announced Apple Watch Series , which was available starting October . Apple Inc. | Form - | Services Advertising The Company’ advertising services include various third-party licensing arrangements and the Company’ own advertising platforms. AppleCare The Company offers portfolio fee-based service and support products under the AppleCare ® brand. The offerings provide priority access Apple technical support, access the global Apple authorized service network for repair and replacement services, and many cases additional coverage for instances accidental damage and theft and loss, depending the country and type product. Cloud Services The Company’ cloud services store and keep customers’ content - -date and available across multiple Apple devices and Windows personal computers. Digital Content The Company operates various platforms, including the App Store ® , that allow customers discover and download applications and digital content, such books, music, video, games and podcasts. The Company also offers digital content through subscription-based services, including Apple Arcade ® , game subscription service; Apple Music ® , which offers users curated listening experience with -demand radio stations; Apple News+ ® , subscription news and magazine service; and Apple + , which offers exclusive original content. During , the Company released Apple Fitness+ , personalized fitness service. Payment Services The Company offers payment services, including Apple Card ® , -branded credit card, and Apple Pay ® , cashless payment service. Markets and Distribution The Company’ customers are primarily the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs variety indirect distribution channels, such third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. During , the Company’ net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for % and %, respectively, total net sales. Competition The markets for the Company’ products and services are highly competitive, and are characterized aggressive price competition and resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price and performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. Many the Company’ competitors seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and imitating the Company’ products and infringing its intellectual property. The Company’ ability compete successfully depends heavily ensuring the continuing and timely introduction innovative new products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. Principal competitive factors important the Company include price, product and service features (including security features), relative price and performance, product and service quality and reliability, design innovation, strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company focused expanding its market opportunities related smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories, and services. The Company faces substantial competition these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, well established hardware, software, and service offerings with large customer bases. addition, some the Company’ competitors have broader product lines, lower-priced products and larger installed base active devices. Competition has been particularly intense competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. Certain competitors have the resources, experience cost structures provide products little profit even loss. The Company’ services compete with business models that provide content users for free and use illegitimate means obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces significant competition competitors imitate the Company’ product features and applications within their products, collaborate offer integrated solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. Supply Components Although most components essential the Company’ business are generally available from multiple sources, certain components are currently obtained from single limited sources. The Company also competes for various components with other participants the markets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components; however, there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Substantially all the Company’ hardware products are manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured the . and Ireland. Research and Development Because the industries which the Company competes are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company’ ability compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability ensure continual and timely flow competitive products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company continues develop new technologies enhance existing products and services, and expand the range its offerings through research and development (“ & ”), licensing intellectual property and acquisition third-party businesses and technology. Intellectual Property The Company currently holds broad collection intellectual property rights relating certain aspects its hardware devices, accessories, software and services. This includes patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other forms intellectual property rights the . and various foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership such intellectual property rights important factor its business and that its success does depend part such ownership, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities its personnel. The Company regularly files patent applications protect innovations arising from its research, development and design, and currently pursuing thousands patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated large portfolio issued patents, including utility patents, design patents and others. The Company also holds copyrights relating certain aspects its products and services. single intellectual property right solely responsible for protecting the Company’ products. The Company believes the duration its intellectual property rights adequate relative the expected lives its products. addition Company-owned intellectual property, many the Company’ products and services are designed include intellectual property owned third parties. may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects the Company’ products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able obtain such licenses commercially reasonable terms the past, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained the future reasonable terms all. Apple Inc. | Form - | Business Seasonality and Product Introductions The Company has historically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters its fiscal year due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost sales and operating expenses. The timing product introductions can also impact the Company’ net sales its indirect distribution channels these channels are filled with new inventory following product launch, and channel inventory older product often declines the launch newer product approaches. Net sales can also affected when consumers and distributors anticipate product introduction. Human Capital The Company believes has talented, motivated, and dedicated team, and committed supporting the development all its team members and continuously building its strong culture. September , , the Company had approximately , full-time equivalent employees. Workplace Practices and Policies The Company committed providing workplace free harassment discrimination based race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran status, caste other legally protected characteristic. The Company equal opportunity employer committed inclusion and diversity. Compensation and Benefits The Company believes that compensation should not only competitive; should equitable and should enable employees share the Company’ success shareholders the Company. The Company recognizes its people are most likely thrive when they have the resources meet their needs and the time and support succeed their professional and personal lives. support this, the Company offers wide variety benefits employees around the world. Growth and Development The Company invests tools and resources that support employees’ individual growth and development. The Company also provides classes and seminars foster understanding and critical thinking about the Company’ culture, organization and values. Inclusion and Diversity The Company committed hiring inclusively, providing training and development opportunities, fostering inclusive culture, and ensuring equitable pay for employees, and continuing focus increasing diverse representation every level the Company. The Company has initiatives place implement its commitment increase diverse representation, including creating diverse interview panels and candidate slates, focusing robust diversity recruiting efforts, and expanding diversity outreach efforts through organizations that serve and engage talent from underrepresented communities. The Company also offers team members access ongoing inclusion and diversity education, and support throughout their career journey and helps them find community and connection through employee groups that create spaces for belonging, learning, and growing inclusivity, diversity and equity efforts. Engagement The Company believes that open and honest communication among team members, managers and leadership fosters open, collaborative work environment where everyone can participate, develop and thrive. Team members are encouraged come their managers with questions, feedback concerns, and the Company regularly conducts surveys that gauge employee sentiment areas like career development, manager performance and inclusivity. Health and Safety The Company committed protecting its employees everywhere operates. The Company identifies potential risks associated with workplace activities order develop measures mitigate possible hazards. The Company supports employees with general safety training and puts specific programs place for those working potentially high-hazard environments, including chemical management, laser safety, equipment and machinery safety, hazardous materials management and electrical safety. The Company has taken additional measures during the COVID- pandemic, including providing information resources, testing, face masks and personal protective equipment, and case support. The Company also offers special sick leave for employees with possible COVID- symptoms, well comprehensive health coverage. Apple Inc. | Form - | Available Information The Company’ Annual Reports Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the “Exchange Act”), are filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available free charge investor apple com investor-relations sec-filings default aspx when such reports are available the SEC’ website. The Company periodically provides other information for investors its corporate website, www apple com, and its investor relations website, investor apple com. This includes press releases and other information about financial performance, information environmental, social and corporate governance and details related the Company’ annual meeting shareholders. The information contained the websites referenced this Form - not incorporated reference into this filing. Further, the Company’ references website URLs are intended inactive textual references only. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors The Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition, well the price the Company’ stock, can affected number factors, whether currently known unknown, including those described below. When any one more these risks materialize from time time, the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition, well the price the Company’ stock, can materially and adversely affected. Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company’ results operations and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. This discussion risk factors contains forward-looking statements. This section should read conjunction with Part , Item , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes Part , Item , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” this Form - . Risks Related COVID- The Company’ business, results operations and financial condition, well the price the Company’ stock, have been adversely affected and could the future materially adversely affected the COVID- pandemic. COVID- has had, and continues have, significant impact around the world, prompting governments and businesses take unprecedented measures response. Such measures have included restrictions travel and business operations, temporary closures businesses, and quarantine and shelter- -place orders. The COVID- pandemic has times significantly curtailed global economic activity and caused significant volatility and disruption global financial markets. The COVID- pandemic and the measures taken many countries response have adversely affected and could the future materially adversely impact the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition, well the price the Company’ stock. During the course the pandemic, certain the Company’ component suppliers and manufacturing and logistical service providers have experienced disruptions, resulting supply shortages that affected sales worldwide, and similar disruptions could occur the future. The Company’ retail stores, well channel partner points sale, have been temporarily closed various times. many cases, stores and points sale have reopened, they are subject operating restrictions protect public health and the health and safety employees and customers. The Company has times required substantially all its employees work remotely. The Company continues monitor the situation and take appropriate actions accordance with the recommendations and requirements relevant authorities. The extent which the COVID- pandemic may impact the Company’ operational and financial performance remains uncertain and will depend many factors outside the Company’ control, including the timing, extent, trajectory and duration the pandemic, the emergence new variants, the development, availability, distribution and effectiveness vaccines and treatments, the imposition protective public safety measures, and the impact the pandemic the global economy and demand for consumer products. Additional future impacts the Company may include, but are not limited , material adverse effects demand for the Company’ products and services, the Company’ supply chain and sales and distribution channels, the Company’ ability execute its strategic plans, and the Company’ profitability and cost structure. the extent the COVID- pandemic adversely affects the Company’ business, results operations, financial condition and stock price, may also have the effect heightening many the other risks described this Part , Item this Form - . Macroeconomic and Industry Risks The Company’ operations and performance depend significantly global and regional economic conditions and adverse economic conditions can materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. The Company has international operations with sales outside the . representing majority the Company’ total net sales. addition, the Company’ global supply chain large and complex and majority the Company’ supplier facilities, including manufacturing and assembly sites, are located outside the . result, the Company’ operations and performance depend significantly global and regional economic conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, slower growth recession, new increased tariffs and other barriers trade, changes fiscal and monetary policy, tighter credit, higher interest rates, high unemployment and currency fluctuations can materially adversely affect demand for the Company’ products and services. addition, consumer confidence and spending can adversely affected response financial market volatility, negative financial news, conditions the real estate and mortgage markets, declines income asset values, changes fuel and other energy costs, labor and healthcare costs and other economic factors. Apple Inc. | Form - | addition adverse impact demand for the Company’ products, uncertainty about, decline , global regional economic conditions can have significant impact the Company’ suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners. Potential effects include financial instability; inability obtain credit finance operations and purchases the Company’ products; and insolvency. downturn the economic environment can also lead increased credit and collectibility risk the Company’ trade receivables; the failure derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; limitations the Company’ ability issue new debt; reduced liquidity; and declines the fair value the Company’ financial instruments. These and other economic factors can materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. The Company’ business can impacted political events, trade and other international disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions. Political events, trade and other international disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions can harm disrupt international commerce and the global economy, and could have material adverse effect the Company and its customers, suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners. The Company has large, global business, and the Company believes that generally benefits from growth international trade. Trade and other international disputes can result tariffs, sanctions, and other measures that restrict international trade and can adversely affect the Company’ business. For example, tensions between the . and China have led series tariffs being imposed the . imports from China mainland, well other business restrictions. Tariffs increase the cost the Company’ products and the components and raw materials that into making them. These increased costs adversely impact the gross margin that the Company earns its products. Tariffs can also make the Company’ products more expensive for customers, which could make the Company’ products less competitive and reduce consumer demand. Countries may also adopt other measures, such controls imports exports goods, technology data, that could adversely impact the Company’ operations and supply chain and limit the Company’ ability offer its products and services designed. These measures can require the Company take various actions, including changing suppliers, restructuring business relationships, and ceasing offer third-party applications its platforms. Changing the Company’ operations accordance with new changed trade restrictions can expensive, time-consuming, disruptive the Company’ operations and distracting management. Such restrictions can announced with little advance notice and the Company may not able effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures. Political uncertainty surrounding trade and other international disputes could also have negative effect consumer confidence and spending, which could adversely affect the Company’ business. Many the Company’ operations and facilities, well critical business operations the Company’ suppliers and contract manufacturers, are locations that are prone earthquakes and other natural disasters. addition, such operations and facilities are subject the risk interruption fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, ransomware and other cybersecurity attacks, labor disputes, public health issues, including pandemics such the COVID- pandemic, and other events beyond the Company’ control. Global climate change resulting certain types natural disasters occurring more frequently with more intense effects. Such events can make difficult impossible for the Company manufacture and deliver products its customers, create delays and inefficiencies the Company’ supply and manufacturing chain, and result slowdowns and outages the Company’ service offerings. Following interruption its business, the Company can require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures resume operations, and lose significant sales. Because the Company relies single limited sources for the supply and manufacture many critical components, business interruption affecting such sources would exacerbate any negative consequences the Company. The Company’ operations are also subject the risks industrial accidents its suppliers and contract manufacturers. While the Company’ suppliers are required maintain safe working environments and operations, industrial accident could occur and could result disruption the Company’ business and harm the Company’ reputation. Major public health issues, including pandemics such the COVID- pandemic, have adversely affected, and could the future adversely affect, the Company due their impact the global economy and demand for consumer products; the imposition protective public safety measures, such stringent employee travel restrictions and limitations freight services and the movement products between regions; and disruptions the Company’ supply chain and sales and distribution channels, resulting interruptions the supply current products and delays production ramps new products. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types losses, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses that may arise. Apple Inc. | Form - | Global markets for the Company’ products and services are highly competitive and subject rapid technological change, and the Company may unable compete effectively these markets. The Company’ products and services are offered highly competitive global markets characterized aggressive price competition and resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price and performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. The Company’ ability compete successfully depends heavily ensuring the continuing and timely introduction innovative new products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. result, the Company must make significant investments & . There can assurance these investments will achieve expected returns, and the Company may not able develop and market new products and services successfully. The Company currently holds significant number patents, trademarks and copyrights and has registered, and applied register, additional patents, trademarks and copyrights. contrast, many the Company’ competitors seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and imitating the Company’ products and infringing its intellectual property. Effective intellectual property protection not consistently available every country which the Company operates. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins competitors infringe the Company’ intellectual property, the Company’ ability maintain competitive advantage could adversely affected. The Company has minority market share the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets. The Company faces substantial competition these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, well established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships. addition, some the Company’ competitors have broader product lines, lower-priced products and larger installed base active devices. Competition has been particularly intense competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. Certain competitors have the resources, experience cost structures provide products little profit even loss. Some the markets which the Company competes have from time time experienced little growth contracted overall. Additionally, the Company faces significant competition competitors imitate the Company’ product features and applications within their products collaborate offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company also expects competition intensify competitors imitate the Company’ approach providing components seamlessly within their offerings work collaboratively offer integrated solutions. The Company’ services also face substantial competition, including from companies that have significant resources and experience and have established service offerings with large customer bases. The Company competes with business models that provide content users for free. The Company also competes with illegitimate means obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company’ business, results operations and financial condition depend substantially the Company’ ability continually improve its products and services maintain their functional and design advantages. There can assurance the Company will able continue provide products and services that compete effectively. Business Risks remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent introductions and transitions products and services. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the industries which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services, and successfully manage the transition these new and upgraded products and services. The success new product and service introductions depends number factors, including timely and successful development, market acceptance, the Company’ ability manage the risks associated with production ramp- issues, the availability application software for the Company’ products, the effective management purchase commitments and inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities and expected costs meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products and services may have quality other defects deficiencies. There can assurance the Company will successfully manage future introductions and transitions products and services. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company depends component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided outsourcing partners, many which are located outside the . Substantially all the Company’ manufacturing performed whole part outsourcing partners located primarily Asia. significant concentration this manufacturing currently performed small number outsourcing partners, often single locations. The Company has also outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements can lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company’ direct control over production and distribution. Such diminished control has from time time and may the future have adverse effect the quality quantity products manufactured services provided, adversely affect the Company’ flexibility respond changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for product defect expense reimbursement, the Company generally remains responsible the consumer for warranty and out- -warranty service the event product defects and experiences unanticipated product defect liability from time time. While the Company relies its partners adhere its supplier code conduct, violations the supplier code conduct occur from time time and can materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. The Company relies single-source outsourcing partners the ., Asia and Europe supply and manufacture many components, and outsourcing partners primarily located Asia, for final assembly substantially all the Company’ hardware products. Any failure these partners perform can have negative impact the Company’ cost supply components finished goods. addition, manufacturing logistics these locations transit final destinations can disrupted for variety reasons, including natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, commercial disputes, military actions, economic, business, labor, environmental, public health political issues, international trade disputes. The Company has invested manufacturing process equipment, much which held certain its outsourcing partners, and has made prepayments certain its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements. While these arrangements help ensure the supply components and finished goods, these outsourcing partners suppliers experience severe financial problems other disruptions their business, such continued supply can reduced terminated, and the recoverability manufacturing process equipment prepayments can negatively impacted. Future operating results depend upon the Company’ ability obtain components sufficient quantities commercially reasonable terms. Because the Company currently obtains certain components from single limited sources, the Company subject significant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations that can materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. For example, the global semiconductor industry experiencing high demand and shortages supply, which has adversely affected, and could materially adversely affect, the Company’ ability obtain sufficient quantities components and products commercially reasonable terms all. While the Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components, there can assurance the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Component suppliers may suffer from poor financial conditions, which can lead business failure for the supplier consolidation within particular industry, further limiting the Company’ ability obtain sufficient quantities components commercially reasonable terms all. The effects global regional economic conditions the Company’ suppliers, described “ The Company’ operations and performance depend significantly global and regional economic conditions and adverse economic conditions can materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition, ” above, can also affect the Company’ ability obtain components . Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its business, results operations and financial condition. The Company’ new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, can affected for any number reasons, including suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. When the Company’ supply components for new existing product has been delayed constrained, when outsourcing partner has delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition have been adversely affected and future delays constraints could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. The Company’ business and financial performance could also materially adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ products and services may affected from time time design and manufacturing defects that could materially adversely affect the Company’ business and result harm the Company’ reputation. The Company offers complex hardware and software products and services that can affected design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those offered the Company, often have issues that can unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation hardware software products. Defects can also exist components and products the Company purchases from third parties. Component defects could make the Company’ products unsafe and create risk environmental property damage and personal injury. These risks may increase the Company’ products are introduced into specialized applications, including healthcare. addition, the Company’ service offerings can have quality issues and from time time experience outages, service slowdowns errors. result, the Company’ services from time time have not performed anticipated and may not meet customer expectations. There can assurance the Company will able detect and fix all issues and defects the hardware, software and services offers. Failure can result widespread technical and performance issues affecting the Company’ products and services. addition, the Company can exposed product liability claims, recalls, product replacements modifications, write-offs inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, and significant warranty and other expenses, including litigation costs and regulatory fines. Quality problems can also adversely affect the experience for users the Company’ products and services, and result harm the Company’ reputation, loss competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, delay new product and service introductions and lost sales. The Company exposed the risk write-downs the value its inventory and other assets, addition purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete exceed anticipated demand, for which cost exceeds net realizable value. The Company also accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders excess products and components. The Company reviews long-lived assets, including capital assets held its suppliers’ facilities and inventory prepayments, for impairment whenever events circumstances indicate the assets may not recoverable. the Company determines that impairment has occurred, records write-down equal the amount which the carrying value the asset exceeds its fair value. Although the Company believes its inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets and purchase commitments are currently recoverable, there can assurance the Company will not incur write-downs, fees, impairments and other charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the industries which the Company competes. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product announcements and shipments. Manufacturing purchase obligations cover the Company’ forecasted component and manufacturing requirements, typically for periods days. Because the Company’ markets are volatile, competitive and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order produce excess insufficient amounts components products, not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. The Company relies access third-party intellectual property, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company’ products and services are designed include intellectual property owned third parties, which requires licenses from those third parties. addition, because technological changes the industries which the Company currently competes the future may compete, current extensive patent coverage and the rapid rate issuance new patents, the Company’ products and services may unknowingly infringe existing patents intellectual property rights others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third parties. Based experience and industry practice, the Company believes licenses such third-party intellectual property can generally obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance the necessary licenses can obtained commercially reasonable terms all. Failure obtain the right use third-party intellectual property, use such intellectual property commercially reasonable terms, can preclude the Company from selling certain products services, otherwise have material adverse impact the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. The Company’ future performance depends part support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions customers purchase its hardware products depend part the availability third-party software applications and services. There can assurance third-party developers will continue develop and maintain software applications and services for the Company’ products. third-party software applications and services cease developed and maintained for the Company’ products, customers may choose not buy the Company’ products. The Company believes the availability third-party software applications and services for its products depends part the developers’ perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining and upgrading such software and services for the Company’ products compared competitors’ platforms, such Android for smartphones and tablets, Windows for personal computers and tablets, and PlayStation, Nintendo and Xbox for gaming platforms. This analysis may based factors such the market position the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may generated, expected future growth product sales, and the costs developing such applications and services. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ minority market share the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets can make developers less inclined develop upgrade software for the Company’ products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for competitors’ products with larger market share. When developers focus their efforts these competing platforms, the availability and quality applications for the Company’ devices can suffer. The Company relies the continued availability and development compelling and innovative software applications for its products. The Company’ products and operating systems are subject rapid technological change, and when third-party developers are unable choose not keep with this pace change, their applications can fail take advantage these changes deliver improved customer experiences and can operate incorrectly and can result dissatisfied customers. The Company distributes third-party applications for its products through the App Store. For the vast majority applications, developers keep all the revenue they generate the App Store. The Company only retains commission from sales applications and sales digital services goods within application. From time time, the Company has made changes its App Store, including actions taken response competition, market and legal conditions. The Company may make further business changes the future. New legislative initiatives, such the proposed European Union (“ ”) Digital Markets Act, could, enacted, require further changes. The Company also subject litigation and investigations relating the App Store, which have resulted changes the Company’ business practices, and may the future result further changes. These changes could include how and what extent the Company charges developers for access its platforms and manages distribution apps outside the App Store. This could reduce the volume sales, and the commission that the Company earns those sales, would decrease. the rate the commission that the Company retains such sales reduced, otherwise narrowed scope eliminated, the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition could materially adversely affected. Failure obtain create digital content that appeals the Company’ customers, make such content available commercially reasonable terms, could have material adverse impact the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. The Company contracts with numerous third parties offer their digital content customers. This includes the right sell, offer subscriptions , third-party content, well the right incorporate specific content into the Company’ own services. The licensing other distribution arrangements for this content can for relatively short time periods and not guarantee the continuation renewal these arrangements commercially reasonable terms, all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently the future may offer competing products and services, and can take actions make difficult impossible for the Company license otherwise distribute their content. Other content owners, providers distributors may seek limit the Company’ access , increase the cost , such content. The Company may unable continue offer wide variety content commercially reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules. The Company also produces its own digital content, which can costly produce due intense and increasing competition for talent, content and subscribers, and may fail appeal the Company’ customers. The COVID- pandemic has also caused additional restrictions production and increased costs for digital content. Some third-party digital content providers require the Company provide digital rights management and other security solutions. requirements change, the Company may have develop license new technology provide these solutions. There can assurance the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner. The Company’ success depends largely the continued service and availability highly skilled employees, including key personnel. Much the Company’ future success depends the continued availability and service key personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel the technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially Silicon Valley, where most the Company’ key personnel are located. The Company believes that its distinctive and inclusive culture significant driver its success. the Company unable nurture and maintain its culture, could adversely affect the Company’ ability recruit and retain highly skilled employees and materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. The Company depends the performance carriers, wholesalers, retailers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. Some carriers providing cellular network service for the Company’ products offer financing, installment payment plans subsidies for users’ purchases the device. There can assurance such offers will continued all the same amounts. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company has invested and will continue invest programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers’ stores with Company employees and contractors, and improving product placement displays. These programs can require substantial investment while not assuring return incremental sales. The financial condition these resellers could weaken, these resellers could stop distributing the Company’ products, uncertainty regarding demand for some all the Company’ products could cause resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company’ products. The Company’ business and reputation are impacted information technology system failures and network disruptions. The Company and its global supply chain are exposed information technology system failures network disruptions caused natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts terrorism war, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, ransomware other cybersecurity incidents, other events disruptions. System redundancy and other continuity measures may ineffective inadequate, and the Company’ its vendors’ business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures disruptions can adversely impact the Company’ business , among other things, preventing access the Company’ online services, interfering with customer transactions impeding the manufacturing and shipping the Company’ products. These events could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. Losses unauthorized access releases confidential information, including personal information, could subject the Company significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences. The Company’ business requires use and store confidential information, including personal information, with respect the Company’ customers and employees. The Company devotes significant resources network and data security, including through the use encryption and other security measures intended protect its systems and data. But these measures cannot provide absolute security, and losses unauthorized access releases confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. The Company’ business also requires share confidential information with suppliers and other third parties. The Company relies global suppliers that are also exposed ransomware and other malicious attacks that can disrupt business operations. Although the Company takes steps secure confidential information that provided accessible third parties working the Company’ behalf, such measures are not always effective and losses unauthorized access releases confidential information occur. Such incidents and other malicious attacks could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. The Company experiences malicious attacks and other attempts gain unauthorized access its systems regular basis. These attacks seek compromise the confidentiality, integrity availability confidential information disrupt normal business operations, and could, among other things, impair the Company’ ability attract and retain customers for its products and services, impact the price the Company’ stock, materially damage commercial relationships, and expose the Company litigation government investigations, which could result penalties, fines judgments against the Company. Globally, attacks are expected continue accelerating both frequency and sophistication with increasing use actors tools and techniques that are designed circumvent controls, avoid detection, and remove obfuscate forensic evidence, all which hinders the Company’ ability identify, investigate and recover from incidents. Although malicious attacks perpetrated gain access confidential information, including personal information, affect many companies across various industries, the Company relatively greater risk being targeted because its high profile and the value the confidential information creates, owns, manages, stores and processes. The Company has implemented systems and processes intended secure its information technology systems and prevent unauthorized access loss sensitive data, and mitigate the impact unauthorized access, including through the use encryption and authentication technologies. with all companies, these security measures may not sufficient for all eventualities and may vulnerable hacking, ransomware attacks, employee error, malfeasance, system error, faulty password management other irregularities. For example, third parties can fraudulently induce the Company’ its vendors’ employees customers into disclosing user names, passwords other sensitive information, which can, turn, used for unauthorized access the Company’ its vendors’ systems and services. help protect customers and the Company, the Company deploys and makes available technologies like multifactor authentication, monitors its services and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which, among other things, can result the delay loss customer orders impede customer access the Company’ products and services. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that intended address certain aspects data security risks, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses all types claims that may arise. Apple Inc. | Form - | Investment new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the Company’ ongoing business, present risks not originally contemplated and adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. The Company has invested, and the future may invest, new business strategies acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management from current operations, greater-than-expected liabilities and expenses, economic, political, legal and regulatory challenges associated with operating new businesses, regions countries, inadequate return capital, potential impairment tangible and intangible assets, and significant write-offs. Investment and acquisition transactions are exposed additional risks, including failing obtain required regulatory approvals timely basis all, the imposition onerous conditions that could delay prevent the Company from completing transaction otherwise limit the Company’ ability fully realize the anticipated benefits transaction. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not successful. The failure any significant investment could adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. The Company’ retail stores have required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and are subject numerous risks and uncertainties. The Company’ retail stores have required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company’ more typical retail stores. Due the high cost structure associated with the Company’ retail stores, decline sales the closure poor performance individual store multiple stores, including result protective public safety measures response the COVID- pandemic, could result significant lease termination costs, write-offs equipment and leasehold improvements and severance costs. The Company’ retail operations are subject many factors that pose risks and uncertainties and could adversely impact the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition, including macro-economic factors that could have adverse effect general retail activity. Other factors include the Company’ ability : manage costs associated with retail store construction and operation; manage relationships with existing retail partners; manage costs associated with fluctuations the value retail inventory; and obtain and renew leases quality retail locations reasonable cost. Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risks The Company’ business, results operations and financial condition could adversely impacted unfavorable results legal proceedings government investigations. The Company subject various claims, legal proceedings and government investigations that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not yet been fully resolved, and new matters may arise the future. addition, agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions which can subject the Company costs and damages the event claim against indemnified third party. The number claims, legal proceedings and government investigations involving the Company, and the alleged magnitude such claims, proceedings and government investigations, has generally increased over time and may continue increase. The Company has faced and continues face significant number patent claims relating its cellular-enabled products, and new claims may arise the future. For example, technology and other patent-holding companies frequently assert their patents and seek royalties and often enter into litigation based allegations patent infringement other violations intellectual property rights. The Company vigorously defending infringement actions courts several . jurisdictions, well internationally various countries. The plaintiffs these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless the merit particular claims, defending against litigation responding government investigations can expensive, time-consuming, disruptive the Company’ operations and distracting management. recognition these considerations, the Company may enter into agreements other arrangements settle litigation and resolve such challenges. There can assurance such agreements can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. These agreements can also significantly increase the Company’ cost sales and operating expenses and require the Company change its business practices and limit the Company’ ability offer certain products and services. Except described Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Legal Proceedings” and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Commitments and Contingencies” under the heading “Contingencies,” the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss greater than recorded accrual, concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. Apple Inc. | Form - | The outcome litigation government investigations inherently uncertain. one more legal matters were resolved against the Company indemnified third party reporting period for amounts above management’ expectations, the Company’ results operations and financial condition for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Further, such outcome can result significant compensatory, punitive trebled monetary damages, disgorgement revenue profits, remedial corporate measures injunctive relief against the Company, and can require the Company change its business practices and limit the Company’ ability offer certain products and services, all which could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types claims, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses all types claims that may arise. The Company subject complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide, which exposes the Company potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects the Company’ business. The Company’ global operations are subject complex and changing laws and regulations subjects, including antitrust; privacy, data security and data localization; consumer protection; advertising, sales, billing and -commerce; product liability; intellectual property ownership and infringement; digital platforms; Internet, telecommunications, and mobile communications; media, television, film and digital content; availability third-party software applications and services; labor and employment; anticorruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; anti–money laundering; foreign ownership and investment; tax; and environmental, health and safety, including electronic waste, recycling, and climate change. Compliance with these laws and regulations onerous and expensive, increasing the cost conducting the Company’ global operations. Changes laws and regulations can adversely affect the Company’ business increasing the Company’ costs, limiting the Company’ ability offer product service customers, requiring changes the Company’ supply chain and business practices otherwise making the Company’ products and services less attractive customers. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can assurance the Company’ employees, contractors agents will not violate such laws and regulations the Company’ policies and procedures. the Company found have violated laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. Regulatory changes and other actions that materially adversely affect the Company’ business may announced with little advance notice and the Company may not able effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures. The technology industry, including, some instances, the Company, subject intense media, political and regulatory scrutiny, which exposes the Company increasing regulation, government investigations, legal actions and penalties. From time time, the Company has made changes its App Store, including actions taken response competition, market and legal conditions. The Company may make further business changes the future. New legislative initiatives, such the proposed Digital Markets Act, could, enacted, require further changes. These changes could include how and what extent the Company charges developers for access its platforms and manages distribution apps outside the App Store. The Company also currently subject antitrust investigations various jurisdictions around the world, which can result legal proceedings and claims against the Company that could, individually the aggregate, have materially adverse impact the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. For example, the Company the subject investigations Europe and other jurisdictions relating App Store terms and conditions. such investigations result adverse findings against the Company, the Company could exposed significant fines and may required make changes its App Store business, all which could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. The Company also subject litigation relating the App Store, which has resulted changes the Company’ business practices, and may the future result further changes. Further, the Company has commercial relationships with other companies the technology industry that are may become subject investigations and litigation that, resolved against those other companies, could adversely affect the Company’ commercial relationships with those business partners and materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. For example, the Company earns revenue from licensing arrangements with other companies offer their search services the Company’ platforms and apps, and certain these arrangements are currently subject government investigations and legal proceedings. There can assurance the Company’ business will not materially adversely affected, individually the aggregate, the outcomes such investigations, litigation changes laws and regulations the future. Changes the Company’ business practices comply with new laws and regulations connection with other legal proceedings could negatively impact the reputation the Company’ products for privacy and security and otherwise adversely affect the experience for users the Company’ products and services, and result harm the Company’ reputation, loss competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, and lost sales. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ business subject variety . and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company subject federal, state and international laws relating the collection, use, retention, security and transfer various types personal information. many cases, these laws apply not only third-party transactions, but also restrict transfers personal information among the Company and its international subsidiaries. Several jurisdictions have passed laws this area, and additional jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions have laws that are pending. These laws continue develop and may inconsistent from jurisdiction jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing requirements causes the Company incur substantial costs and has required and may the future require the Company change its business practices. Noncompliance could result significant penalties legal liability. The Company makes statements about its use and disclosure personal information through its privacy policy, information provided its website, press statements and other privacy notices provided customers. Any failure the Company comply with these public statements with other federal, state international privacy data protection laws and regulations could result inquiries proceedings against the Company governmental entities others. addition reputational impacts, penalties could include ongoing audit requirements and significant legal liability. addition the risks generally relating the collection, use, retention, security and transfer personal information, the Company also subject specific obligations relating information considered sensitive under applicable laws, such health data, financial data and biometric data. Health data subject additional privacy, security and breach notification requirements, and the Company subject audit governmental authorities regarding the Company’ compliance with these obligations. the Company fails adequately comply with these rules and requirements, health data handled manner not permitted law under the Company’ agreements with healthcare institutions, the Company can subject litigation government investigations, and can liable for associated investigatory expenses, and can also incur significant fees fines. Financial data, such payment card data, also subject additional requirements. Under payment card rules and obligations, cardholder information potentially compromised, the Company can liable for associated investigatory expenses and can also incur significant fees fines the Company fails follow payment card industry data security standards. The Company could also experience significant increase payment card transaction costs lose the ability process payment cards fails follow payment card industry data security standards, which would materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. Financial Risks The Company expects its quarterly net sales and results operations fluctuate. The Company’ profit margins vary across its products, services, geographic segments and distribution channels. For example, the gross margins the Company’ products and services vary significantly and can change over time. The Company’ gross margins are subject volatility and downward pressure due variety factors, including: continued industry-wide global product pricing pressures and product pricing actions that the Company may take response such pressures; increased competition; the Company’ ability effectively stimulate demand for certain its products and services; compressed product life cycles; potential increases the cost components, outside manufacturing services, and developing, acquiring and delivering content for the Company’ services; the Company’ ability manage product quality and warranty costs effectively; shifts the mix products and services, the geographic, currency channel mix, including the extent that regulatory changes require the Company modify its product and service offerings; fluctuations foreign exchange rates; and the introduction new products services, including new products services with higher cost structures. These and other factors could have materially adverse impact the Company’ results operations and financial condition. The Company has historically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters its fiscal year due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost sales and operating expenses. Further, the Company generates significant portion its net sales from single product and decline demand for that product could significantly impact quarterly net sales. The Company could also subject unexpected developments, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’ products services, issues with new product service introductions, information technology system failures network disruptions, failure one the Company’ logistics, components supply, manufacturing partners. The Company’ financial performance subject risks associated with changes the value the . dollar relative local currencies. The Company’ primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relates non– . dollar–denominated sales, cost sales and operating expenses worldwide. Gross margins the Company’ products foreign countries and products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers could materially adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Apple Inc. | Form - | The weakening foreign currencies relative the . dollar adversely affects the . dollar value the Company’ foreign currency–denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company’ products. some circumstances, for competitive other reasons, the Company may decide not raise international pricing offset the . dollar’ strengthening, which would adversely affect the . dollar value the gross margins the Company earns foreign currency–denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening foreign currencies relative the . dollar, while generally beneficial the Company’ foreign currency–denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company reduce international pricing and incur losses its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening foreign currencies may increase the Company’ cost product components denominated those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company uses derivative instruments, such foreign currency forward and option contracts, hedge certain exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not effective offset any, more than portion, the adverse financial effects unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are place. The Company exposed credit risk and fluctuations the values its investment portfolio. The Company’ investments can negatively affected changes liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, market and economic conditions, political risk, sovereign risk, interest rate fluctuations other factors. result, the value and liquidity the Company’ cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although the Company has not realized any significant losses its cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable securities, future fluctuations their value could result significant losses and could have material adverse impact the Company’ results operations and financial condition. The Company exposed credit risk its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements, and this risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. The Company also sells its products directly small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. substantial majority the Company’ outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral, third-party bank support financing arrangements, credit insurance, and significant portion the Company’ trade receivables can concentrated within cellular network carriers other resellers. The Company’ exposure credit and collectibility risk its trade receivables higher certain international markets and its ability mitigate such risks may limited. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases components outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture subassemblies assemble final products for the Company. addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply inventory components. September , , the Company’ vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements were concentrated among few individual vendors located primarily Asia. While the Company has procedures monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, well long-term prepayments, there can assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company subject changes tax rates, the adoption new . international tax legislation and exposure additional tax liabilities. The Company subject taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where number the Company’ subsidiaries are organized. Due economic and political conditions, tax laws and tax rates for income taxes and other non-income taxes various jurisdictions may subject significant change. The Company’ effective tax rates are affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation deferred tax assets and liabilities, the introduction new taxes, changes tax laws their interpretation, including the . and Ireland. The Company also subject the examination its tax returns and other tax matters the . Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcome resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for taxes. There can assurance the outcome these examinations. the Company’ effective tax rates were increase, particularly the . Ireland, the ultimate determination the Company’ taxes owed for amount excess amounts previously accrued, the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition could materially adversely affected. Apple Inc. | Form - | General Risks The price the Company’ stock subject volatility. The Company’ stock has experienced substantial price volatility the past and may continue the future. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock market whole have, from time time, experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices ways that may have been unrelated these companies’ operating performance. Price volatility may cause the average price which the Company repurchases its stock given period exceed the stock’ price given point time. The Company believes the price its stock should reflect expectations future growth and profitability. The Company also believes the price its stock should reflect expectations that its cash dividend will continue current levels grow, and that its current share repurchase program will fully consummated. Future dividends are subject declaration the Company’ Board Directors, and the Company’ share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. the Company fails meet expectations related future growth, profitability, dividends, share repurchases other market expectations, the price the Company’ stock may decline significantly, which could have material adverse impact investor confidence and employee retention. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company’ headquarters are located Cupertino, California. September , , the Company owned leased facilities and land for corporate functions, & , data centers, retail and other purposes locations throughout the . and various places outside the . The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment, which are used all reportable segments, are good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct its business. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The Company subject legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary course business. The Company’ material legal proceedings are described below and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Commitments and Contingencies” under the heading “Contingencies.” The outcome litigation inherently uncertain. one more legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts above management’ expectations, the Company’ financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company’ financial condition operating results. Epic Games Epic Games, Inc. (“Epic”) filed lawsuit the . District Court for the Northern District California (the “Northern California District Court”) against the Company alleging violations federal and state antitrust laws and California’ unfair competition law based upon the Company’ operation its App Store. The Company filed counterclaim for breach contract. September , , the Northern California District Court ruled favor the Company with respect nine out the ten counts included Epic’ claim, and favor the Company with respect the Company’ claims for breach contract. The Northern California District Court found that certain provisions the Company’ App Store Review Guidelines violate California’ unfair competition law and issued injunction. Epic appealed the decision. The Company filed cross-appeal and seeking stay the injunction pending appeal. ', 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant’ Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The Company’ common stock traded The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbol AAPL. Holders October , , there were , shareholders record. Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September , was follows ( millions, except number shares, which are reflected thousands, and per share amounts): Periods Total Number Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Plans Programs Approximate Dollar Value Shares That May Yet Purchased Under the Plans Programs ( ) June , July , : Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , August , August , : May ASR , ( ) , Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , August , September , : Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , Total , $ , ( ) September , , the Company was authorized purchase $ billion the Company’ common stock under share repurchase program announced April , (the “Program”), which $ billion had been utilized. The remaining $ billion the table represents the amount available repurchase shares under the Program September , . The Program does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares. Under the Program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Exchange Act. ( ) May , the Company entered into accelerated share repurchase agreement (“ASR”) purchase $ billion the Company’ common stock. August , the purchase period for this ASR ended and additional million shares were delivered and retired. total, million shares were delivered under this ASR average repurchase price $ . Apple Inc. | Form - | Company Stock Performance The following graph shows comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend-reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Index, the & Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index for the five years ended September , . The graph assumes $ was invested each the Company’ common stock, the & Index, the & Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index the market close September , . Note that past stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. * $ invested September , stock index, including reinvestment dividends. Data points are the last day each fiscal year for the Company’ common stock and September 30th for indexes. Copyright © Standard & Poor’ , division & Global. All rights reserved. Copyright © & Dow Jones Indices LLC, division & Global. All rights reserved. September September September September September September Apple Inc. $ $ $ $ $ $ & Index $ $ $ $ $ $ & Information Technology Index $ $ $ $ $ $ Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index $ $ $ $ $ $ ', 'item 6. ': '[Reserved] Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 7. ': 'Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included Part , Item this Form - . This section this Form - generally discusses and items and year- -year comparisons between and . Discussions items and year- -year comparisons between and are not included this Form - , and can found “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations” Part , Item the Company’ Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , . Fiscal Year Highlights COVID- Update The COVID- pandemic has had, and continues have, significant impact around the world, prompting governments and businesses take unprecedented measures, such restrictions travel and business operations, temporary closures businesses, and quarantine and shelter- -place orders. The COVID- pandemic has times significantly curtailed global economic activity and caused significant volatility and disruption global financial markets. The COVID- pandemic and the measures taken many countries response have affected and could the future materially impact the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition, well the price the Company’ stock. During , aspects the Company’ business continued affected the COVID- pandemic, with many the Company’ retail stores, well channel partner points sale, temporarily closed various times, and significant number the Company’ employees working remotely. The Company has reopened all its retail stores and substantially all its other facilities, subject operating restrictions protect public health and the health and safety employees and customers, and continues work safely reopening the remainder its facilities, subject local rules and regulations. During the fourth quarter , certain the Company’ component suppliers and logistical service providers experienced disruptions, resulting supply shortages that affected sales worldwide. Similar disruptions could occur the future. The extent the continuing impact the COVID- pandemic the Company’ operational and financial performance uncertain and will depend many factors outside the Company’ control, including the timing, extent, trajectory and duration the pandemic, the emergence new variants, the development, availability, distribution and effectiveness vaccines and treatments, the imposition protective public safety measures, and the impact the pandemic the global economy and demand for consumer products. Refer Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Risk Factors” for more information. Fiscal Highlights Total net sales increased % $ billion during compared , driven growth all Products and Services categories. Year-over-year net sales during also grew each the Company’ reportable segments. April , the Company announced increase its current share repurchase program authorization from $ billion $ billion and raised its quarterly dividend from $ $ per share beginning May . During , the Company repurchased $ billion its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion. Apple Inc. | Form - | Products and Services Performance The following table shows net sales category for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales category: iPhone ( ) $ , % $ , ( ) % $ , Mac ( ) , % , % , iPad ( ) , % , % , Wearables, Home and Accessories ( )( ) , % , % , Services ( ) , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , ( ) Products net sales include amortization the deferred value unspecified software upgrade rights, which are bundled the sales price the respective product. ( ) Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales include sales AirPods, Apple , Apple Watch, Beats products, HomePod, iPod touch and accessories. ( ) Services net sales include sales from the Company’ advertising, AppleCare, cloud, digital content, payment and other services. Services net sales also include amortization the deferred value services bundled the sales price certain products. iPhone iPhone net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales from the Company’ new iPhone models launched the first quarter and fourth quarter and favorable mix iPhone sales. Mac Mac net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales MacBook Air, MacBook Pro and iMac. iPad iPad net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPad Air and iPad Pro. Wearables, Home and Accessories Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales accessories and Apple Watch. Services Services net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales from advertising, the App Store and cloud services. Apple Inc. | Form - | Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company’ reportable segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company’ other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one managed separately better align with the location the Company’ customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. Further information regarding the Company’ reportable segments can found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Segment Information and Geographic Data.” The following table shows net sales reportable segment for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales reportable segment: Americas $ , % $ , % $ , Europe , % , % , Greater China , % , ( ) % , Japan , % , — % , Rest Asia Pacific , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Americas Americas net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone, Services and Mac. Europe Europe net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone, Services and iPad. The movement foreign currencies Europe relative the . dollar had net favorable impact Europe net sales during . Greater China Greater China net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone, iPad and Services. The strength the Chinese renminbi relative the . dollar had favorable impact Greater China net sales during . Japan Japan net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone and Services. Rest Asia Pacific Rest Asia Pacific net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone, iPad and Services. The movement foreign currencies the Rest Asia Pacific relative the . dollar had favorable impact Rest Asia Pacific net sales during . Apple Inc. | Form - | Gross Margin Products and Services gross margin and gross margin percentage for , and were follows (dollars millions): Gross margin: Products $ , $ , $ , Services , , , Total gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage: Products % % % Services % % % Total gross margin percentage % % % Products Gross Margin Products gross margin increased during compared due primarily higher Products volume, different Products mix and the strength foreign currencies relative the . dollar. Products gross margin percentage increased during compared due primarily different Products mix, improved leverage and the strength foreign currencies relative the . dollar. Services Gross Margin Services gross margin increased during compared due primarily higher Services net sales and different Services mix. Services gross margin percentage increased during compared due primarily different Services mix and improved leverage, partially offset higher Services costs. The Company’ future gross margins can impacted variety factors, discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Risk Factors.” result, the Company believes, general, gross margins will subject volatility and downward pressure. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for , and were follows (dollars millions): Change Change Research and development $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Total operating expenses $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Research and Development The year-over-year growth & expense was driven primarily increases headcount-related expenses, & -related professional services and infrastructure-related costs. The Company continues believe that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace, and the development new and updated products and services that are central the Company’ core business strategy. Selling, General and Administrative The year-over-year growth selling, general and administrative expense was driven primarily increases headcount-related expenses, variable selling expenses and professional services. Apple Inc. | Form - | Other Income/(Expense), Net Other income/(expense), net (“ & ”) for , and was follows (dollars millions): Change Change Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income/(expense), net ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ ( ) % $ ( ) % $ , The year-over-year decrease & during was due primarily lower interest income and net losses marketable securities, partially offset positive fair value adjustments non-marketable securities and lower interest expense term debt. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes, effective tax rate and statutory federal income tax rate for , and were follows (dollars millions): Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % Statutory federal income tax rate % % % The Company’ effective tax rate for was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily lower effective tax rate foreign earnings, tax benefits from share-based compensation and foreign-derived intangible income deductions. The Company’ effective tax rate for was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily the lower tax rate foreign earnings, including the impact tax settlements, and tax benefits from share-based compensation. The Company’ effective tax rate for was lower compared due primarily higher tax benefits from foreign-derived intangible income deductions and share-based compensation and the favorable impact changes unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset one-time adjustment . foreign tax credits response regulations issued the . Department the Treasury December . During , the Company established deferred tax assets (“DTAs”) for foreign tax credit carryforwards Ireland and increased DTAs for & tax credit carryforwards California, which resulted combined $ billion increase the valuation allowance the Company’ DTAs, with effect net income. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient realize substantially all the Company’ remaining DTAs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes its balances cash, cash equivalents and unrestricted marketable securities, which totaled $ billion September , , along with cash generated ongoing operations and continued access debt markets, will sufficient satisfy its cash requirements and capital return program over the next months and beyond. The Company’ material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. Debt September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate principal amount $ billion (collectively the “Notes”), with $ billion payable within months. Future interest payments associated with the Notes total $ billion, with $ billion payable within months. The Company also issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant commercial paper program. September , , the Company had $ billion Commercial Paper outstanding, all which was payable within months. Apple Inc. | Form - | Leases The Company has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including retail, corporate, manufacturing and data center space. September , , the Company had fixed lease payment obligations $ billion, with $ billion payable within months. Manufacturing Purchase Obligations The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners manufacture subassemblies for the Company’ products and perform final assembly and testing finished products. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods days. September , , the Company had manufacturing purchase obligations $ billion, with $ billion payable within months. The Company’ manufacturing purchase obligations are primarily noncancelable. Other Purchase Obligations The Company’ other purchase obligations primarily consist noncancelable obligations acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and noncancelable obligations related advertising, content creation and Internet and telecommunications services. September , , the Company had other purchase obligations $ billion, with $ billion payable within months. Deemed Repatriation Tax Payable September , , the balance the deemed repatriation tax payable imposed the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was $ billion, none which payable within months. addition its cash requirements, the Company has capital return program authorized the Board Directors. The Program does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares. September , , the Company’ quarterly cash dividend was $ per share. The Company intends increase its dividend annual basis, subject declaration the Board Directors. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and the Company’ discussion and analysis its financial condition and operating results require the Company’ management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note , “Summary Significant Accounting Policies,” the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Part , Item this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company’ consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Uncertain Tax Positions The Company subject income taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The evaluation the Company’ uncertain tax positions involves significant judgment the interpretation and application GAAP and complex domestic and international tax laws, including the Act and matters related the allocation international taxation rights between countries. Although management believes the Company’ reserves are reasonable, assurance can given that the final tax outcome these matters will not different from that which reflected the Company’ reserves. Reserves are adjusted considering changing facts and circumstances, such the closing tax examination the refinement estimate. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management’ expectations could have material impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business, the outcomes which are inherently uncertain. The Company records liability when probable that loss has been incurred and the amount reasonably estimable, the determination which requires significant judgment. Resolution legal matters manner inconsistent with management’ expectations could have material impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and interest rate swaps, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate exposures. Given the effective horizons the Company’ risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance these positions will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. Further, the recognition the gains and losses related these instruments may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk The Company’ exposure changes interest rates relates primarily the Company’ investment portfolio and outstanding debt. While the Company exposed global interest rate fluctuations, the Company’ interest income and expense are most sensitive fluctuations . interest rates. Changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company’ cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value those securities, well costs associated with hedging and interest paid the Company’ debt. The Company’ investment policy and strategy are focused the preservation capital and supporting the Company’ liquidity requirements. The Company uses combination internal and external management execute its investment strategy and achieve its investment objectives. The Company typically invests highly rated securities, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. The Company’ investment policy generally requires securities investment grade and limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company’ investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , and September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ billion and $ billion incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio, respectively. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. September , and September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate carrying amount $ billion and $ billion, respectively. The Company has entered, and the future may enter, into interest rate swaps manage interest rate risk its outstanding term debt. Interest rate swaps allow the Company effectively convert fixed-rate payments into floating-rate payments floating-rate payments into fixed-rate payments. Gains and losses term debt are generally offset the corresponding losses and gains the related hedging instrument. basis point increase market interest rates would cause interest expense the Company’ debt September , and September , increase $ million and $ million annualized basis, respectively. Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, will negatively affect the Company’ net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There risk that the Company will have adjust local currency pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments foreign subsidiaries. addition, the Company has entered, and the future may enter, into foreign currency contracts partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses its foreign currency–denominated debt issuances. The Company generally hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for months. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for variety reasons including, but not limited , accounting considerations the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. Apple Inc. | Form - | provide assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company’ foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (“VAR”) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate thousands random market price paths assuming normal market conditions. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company’ foreign currency derivative positions due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence, maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , , compared maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, the losses fair value incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company’ investment portfolio, debt and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount changes interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and the Company’ actual exposures and positions. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and per share amounts) Years ended September , September , September , Net sales: Products $ , $ , $ , Services , , , Total net sales , , , Cost sales: Products , , , Services , , , Total cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development , , , Selling, general and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income/(expense), net , Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income/(loss): Change foreign currency translation, net tax ( ) Change unrealized gains losses derivative instruments, net tax: Change fair value derivative instruments ( ) Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included net income , ( , ) Total change unrealized gains losses derivative instruments , ( , ) ( ) Change unrealized gains losses marketable debt securities, net tax: Change fair value marketable debt securities ( ) , , Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Total change unrealized gains losses marketable debt securities ( ) , , Total other comprehensive income/(loss) , Total comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and par value) September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventories , , Vendor non-trade receivables , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Non-current assets: Marketable securities , , Property, plant and equipment, net , , Other non-current assets , , Total non-current assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Other current liabilities , , Deferred revenue , , Commercial paper , , Term debt , , Total current liabilities , , Non-current liabilities: Term debt , , Other non-current liabilities , , Total non-current liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders’ equity: Common stock and additional paid- capital, $ par value: , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) Total shareholders’ equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY ( millions, except per share amounts) Years ended September , September , September , Total shareholders’ equity, beginning balances $ , $ , $ , Common stock and additional paid- capital: Beginning balances , , , Common stock issued , Common stock withheld related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation , , , Ending balances , , , Retained earnings: Beginning balances , , , Net income , , , Dividends and dividend equivalents declared ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock withheld related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effects changes accounting principles — ( ) , Ending balances , , , Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss): Beginning balances ( ) ( ) ( , ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) , Cumulative effects changes accounting principles — Ending balances ( ) ( ) Total shareholders’ equity, ending balances $ , $ , $ , Dividends and dividend equivalents declared per share RSU $ $ $ See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, beginning balances $ , $ , $ , Operating activities: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization , , , Share-based compensation expense , , , Deferred income tax benefit ( , ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable, net ( , ) , Inventories ( , ) ( ) ( ) Vendor non-trade receivables ( , ) , , Other current and non-current assets ( , ) ( , ) Accounts payable , ( , ) ( , ) Deferred revenue , , ( ) Other current and non-current liabilities , , ( , ) Cash generated operating activities , , , Investing activities: Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities marketable securities , , , Proceeds from sales marketable securities , , , Payments for acquisition property, plant and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments made connection with business acquisitions, net ( ) ( , ) ( ) Purchases non-marketable securities ( ) ( ) ( , ) Proceeds from non-marketable securities , Other ( ) ( ) ( , ) Cash generated /(used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) , Financing activities: Proceeds from issuance common stock , Payments for taxes related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments for dividends and dividend equivalents ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from issuance term debt, net , , , Repayments term debt ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from/(Repayments ) commercial paper, net , ( ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used financing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Increase/(Decrease) cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash ( , ) ( , ) , Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, ending balances $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosure: Cash paid for income taxes, net $ , $ , $ , Cash paid for interest $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note – Summary Significant Accounting Policies Basis Presentation and Preparation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (collectively “Apple” the “Company”). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. the opinion the Company’ management, the consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which are normal and recurring nature, necessary for fair financial statement presentation. The preparation these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior period amounts the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been reclassified conform the current period’ presentation. The Company’ fiscal year the - -week period that ends the last Saturday September. additional week included the first fiscal quarter every five six years realign the Company’ fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. The Company’ fiscal years , and spanned weeks each. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years, quarters, months and periods refer the Company’ fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters, months and periods those fiscal years. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Financial Instruments – Credit Losses the beginning the first quarter , the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board’ (the “FASB”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) . - , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic ): Measurement Credit Losses Financial Instruments (“ASU - ”), which modifies the measurement expected credit losses certain financial instruments. The Company adopted ASU - utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. The adoption ASU - did not have material impact the Company’ condensed consolidated financial statements. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred and included selling, general and administrative expenses. Share-Based Compensation The Company generally measures share-based compensation based the closing price the Company’ common stock the date grant, and recognizes expense straight-line basis for its estimate equity awards that will ultimately vest. Further information regarding share-based compensation can found Note , “Benefit Plans.” Earnings Per Share The following table shows the computation basic and diluted earnings per share for , and (net income millions and shares thousands): Numerator: Net income $ , $ , $ , Denominator: Weighted-average basic shares outstanding , , , , , , Effect dilutive securities , , , Weighted-average diluted shares , , , , , , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company applies the treasury stock method determine the dilutive effect potentially dilutive securities. Potentially dilutive securities representing million shares common stock were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per share for because their effect would have been antidilutive. Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. The Company’ investments marketable debt securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. The Company classifies its marketable debt securities either short-term long-term based each instrument’ underlying contractual maturity date. Unrealized gains and losses marketable debt securities classified available-for-sale are recognized other comprehensive income/(loss) (“OCI”). The Company’ investments marketable equity securities are classified based the nature the securities and their availability for use current operations. The Company’ marketable equity securities are measured fair value with gains and losses recognized other income/(expense), net (“ & ”). The cost securities sold determined using the specific identification method. Inventories Inventories are measured using the first- , first-out method. Property, Plant and Equipment Depreciation property, plant and equipment recognized straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets, which for buildings the lesser years the remaining life the building; between one and five years for machinery and equipment, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment; and the shorter lease term useful life for leasehold improvements. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from five seven years . Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion during , and , respectively. Noncash investing activities involving property, plant and equipment resulted net decrease accounts payable and other current liabilities $ billion during . Restricted Cash and Restricted Marketable Securities The Company considers cash and marketable securities restricted when withdrawal general use legally restricted. The Company reports restricted cash other assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and determines current non-current classification based the expected duration the restriction. The Company reports restricted marketable securities current non-current marketable securities the Consolidated Balance Sheets based the classification the underlying securities. Derivative Instruments and Hedging All derivative instruments are recorded the Consolidated Balance Sheets fair value. The accounting treatment for derivative gains and losses based intended use and hedge designation. Gains and losses arising from amounts that are included the assessment cash flow hedge effectiveness are initially deferred accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (“AOCI”) and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings, and the same line item the Consolidated Statements Operations. For options designated cash flow hedges, the Company excludes time value from the assessment hedge effectiveness and recognizes straight-line basis over the life the hedge the Consolidated Statements Operations line item which the hedge relates. Changes the fair value amounts excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness are recognized OCI. Gains and losses arising from amounts that are included the assessment fair value hedge effectiveness are recognized the Consolidated Statements Operations line item which the hedge relates along with offsetting losses and gains related the change value the hedged item. For foreign exchange forward contracts designated fair value hedges, the Company excludes the forward carry component from the assessment hedge effectiveness and recognizes & straight-line basis over the life the hedge. Changes the fair value amounts excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness are recognized OCI. Gains and losses arising from changes the fair values derivative instruments that are not designated accounting hedges are recognized the Consolidated Statements Operations line items which the derivative instruments relate. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company presents derivative assets and liabilities their gross fair values the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company classifies cash flows related derivative instruments operating activities the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows. Fair Value Measurements The fair values the Company’ money market funds and certain marketable equity securities are based quoted prices active markets for identical assets. The valuation techniques used measure the fair value the Company’ debt instruments and all other financial instruments, which generally have counterparties with high credit ratings, are based quoted market prices model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. Note – Revenue Recognition Net sales consist revenue from the sale iPhone, Mac, iPad, Services and other products. The Company recognizes revenue the amount which expects entitled when control the products services transferred its customers. Control generally transferred when the Company has present right payment and title and the significant risks and rewards ownership products services are transferred its customers. For most the Company’ Products net sales, control transfers when products are shipped. For the Company’ Services net sales, control transfers over time services are delivered. Payment for Products and Services net sales collected within short period following transfer control commencement delivery services, applicable. The Company records reductions Products net sales related future product returns, price protection and other customer incentive programs based the Company’ expectations and historical experience. For arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which represent promises within arrangement that are distinct, the Company allocates revenue all distinct performance obligations based their relative stand-alone selling prices (“SSPs”). When available, the Company uses observable prices determine SSPs. When observable prices are not available, SSPs are established that reflect the Company’ best estimates what the selling prices the performance obligations would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. The Company’ process for estimating SSPs without observable prices considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each performance obligation including, where applicable, prices charged the Company for similar offerings, market trends the pricing for similar offerings, product-specific business objectives and the estimated cost provide the performance obligation. The Company has identified three performance obligations regularly included arrangements involving the sale iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products. The first performance obligation, which represents the substantial portion the allocated sales price, the hardware and bundled software delivered the time sale. The second performance obligation the right receive certain product-related bundled services, which include iCloud ® , Siri and Maps. The third performance obligation the right receive, when-and- -available basis, future unspecified software upgrades relating the software bundled with each device. The Company allocates revenue and any related discounts these performance obligations based their relative SSPs. Because the Company lacks observable prices for the undelivered performance obligations, the allocation revenue based the Company’ estimated SSPs. Revenue allocated the delivered hardware and bundled software recognized when control has transferred the customer, which generally occurs when the product shipped. Revenue allocated the product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated period they are expected provided. Cost sales related delivered hardware and bundled software, including estimated warranty costs, are recognized the time sale. Costs incurred provide product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights are recognized cost sales incurred. For certain long-term service arrangements, the Company has performance obligations for services has not yet delivered. For these arrangements, the Company does not have right bill for the undelivered services. The Company has determined that any unbilled consideration relates entirely the value the undelivered services. Accordingly, the Company has not recognized revenue, and has elected not disclose amounts, related these undelivered services. For the sale third-party products where the Company obtains control the product before transferring the customer, the Company recognizes revenue based the gross amount billed customers. The Company considers multiple factors when determining whether obtains control third-party products including, but not limited , evaluating can establish the price the product, retains inventory risk for tangible products has the responsibility for ensuring acceptability the product. For third-party applications sold through the App Store and certain digital content sold through the Company’ other digital content stores, the Company does not obtain control the product before transferring the customer. Therefore, the Company accounts for such sales net basis recognizing Services net sales only the commission retains. The Company has elected record revenue net taxes collected from customers that are remitted governmental authorities, with the collected taxes recorded within other current liabilities until remitted the relevant government authority. Apple Inc. | Form - | Deferred Revenue September , and September , , the Company had total deferred revenue $ billion and $ billion, respectively. September , , the Company expects % total deferred revenue realized less than year, % within one- -two years, % within two- -three years and % greater than three years. Disaggregated Revenue Net sales disaggregated significant products and services for , and were follows ( millions): iPhone ( ) $ , $ , $ , Mac ( ) , , , iPad ( ) , , , Wearables, Home and Accessories ( )( ) , , , Services ( ) , , , Total net sales ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Products net sales include amortization the deferred value unspecified software upgrade rights, which are bundled the sales price the respective product. ( ) Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales include sales AirPods, Apple , Apple Watch, Beats products, HomePod, iPod touch and accessories. ( ) Services net sales include sales from the Company’ advertising, AppleCare, cloud, digital content, payment and other services. Services net sales also include amortization the deferred value services bundled the sales price certain products. ( ) Includes $ billion revenue recognized that was included deferred revenue September , , $ billion revenue recognized that was included deferred revenue September , , and $ billion revenue recognized that was included deferred revenue September , . The Company’ proportion net sales disaggregated revenue source was generally consistent for each reportable segment Note , “Segment Information and Geographic Data” for , and . Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables show the Company’ cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities significant investment category September , and September , ( millions): Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Current Marketable Securities Non-Current Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , $ , $ — $ — Level ( ) : Money market funds , — — , , — — Mutual funds ( ) — — Subtotal , ( ) , , — Level ( ) : Equity securities , — ( ) — — . Treasury securities , ( ) , , , , . agency securities , ( ) , , , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , — — , — Commercial paper , — — , , — Corporate debt securities , , ( ) , — , , Municipal securities — — Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , — , Subtotal , , ( , ) , , , , Total ( ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Current Marketable Securities Non-Current Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , $ , $ — $ — Level ( ) : Money market funds , — — , , — — Level ( ) : . Treasury securities , — , , , , . agency securities , — , , , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , — — , , , Commercial paper , — — , , , — Corporate debt securities , , ( ) , — , , Municipal securities , — , — Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , — , Subtotal , , ( ) , , , , Total ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Level fair value estimates are based quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. ( ) Level fair value estimates are based observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. ( ) September , and September , , total marketable securities included $ billion and $ billion, respectively, that was restricted from general use, related the State Aid Decision (refer Note , “Income Taxes”) and other agreements. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company may sell certain its marketable debt securities prior their stated maturities for reasons including, but not limited , managing liquidity, credit risk, duration and asset allocation. The following table shows the fair value the Company’ non-current marketable debt securities, contractual maturity, September , ( millions): Due after year through years $ , Due after years through years , Due after years , Total fair value $ , The Company typically invests highly rated securities, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. The Company’ investment policy generally requires securities investment grade and limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. Fair values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. Derivative Instruments and Hedging The Company may use derivative instruments partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange and interest rate risk. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain exposures for variety reasons including, but not limited , accounting considerations the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. There can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements foreign exchange interest rates. Foreign Exchange Risk protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into forward contracts, option contracts other instruments, and may designate these instruments cash flow hedges. The Company generally hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for months. protect the Company’ foreign currency–denominated term debt marketable securities from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into forward contracts, cross-currency swaps other instruments. The Company designates these instruments either cash flow fair value hedges. September , , the Company’ hedged term debt– and marketable securities–related foreign currency transactions are expected recognized within years. The Company may also enter into derivative instruments that are not designated accounting hedges protect gross margins from certain fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, well offset portion the foreign currency exchange gains and losses generated the remeasurement certain assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. Interest Rate Risk protect the Company’ term debt marketable securities from fluctuations interest rates, the Company may enter into interest rate swaps, options other instruments. The Company designates these instruments either cash flow fair value hedges. The notional amounts the Company’ outstanding derivative instruments September , and September , were follows ( millions): Derivative instruments designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , Interest rate contracts $ , $ , Derivative instruments not designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , The gross fair values the Company’ derivative assets and liabilities were not material September , and September , . The gains and losses recognized OCI and amounts reclassified from AOCI net income for the Company’ derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges were not material , and . Apple Inc. | Form - | The carrying amounts the Company’ hedged items fair value hedges September , and September , were follows ( millions): Hedged assets/(liabilities): Current and non-current marketable securities $ , $ , Current and non-current term debt $ ( , ) $ ( , ) The gains and losses the Company’ derivative instruments designated fair value hedges and the related hedged item adjustments were not material , and . Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company has considerable trade receivables outstanding with its third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, resellers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral third-party credit support certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company attempts limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers requiring third-party financing, loans leases support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. both September , and September , , the Company had customers that individually represented % more total trade receivables. The Company’ cellular network carriers accounted for % total trade receivables September , . Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale components these vendors who manufacture subassemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these components directly from suppliers. September , , the Company had three vendors that individually represented % more total vendor non-trade receivables, which accounted for %, % and %. September , , the Company had two vendors that individually represented % more total vendor non-trade receivables, which accounted for % and %. Note – Consolidated Financial Statement Details The following tables show the Company’ consolidated financial statement details September , and September , ( millions): Property, Plant and Equipment, Net Land and buildings $ , $ , Machinery, equipment and internal-use software , , Leasehold improvements , , Gross property, plant and equipment , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Total property, plant and equipment, net $ , $ , Other Non-Current Liabilities Long-term taxes payable $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities , , Total other non-current liabilities $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Other Income/(Expense), Net The following table shows the detail & for , and ( millions): Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income/(expense), net ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ $ $ , Note – Income Taxes Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rate The provision for income taxes for , and , consisted the following ( millions): Federal: Current $ , $ , $ , Deferred ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total , , , State: Current , Deferred ( ) ( ) Total , Foreign: Current , , , Deferred , , , Total , , , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , and ) income before provision for income taxes for , and , follows (dollars millions): Computed expected tax $ , $ , $ , State taxes, net federal effect , Impacts the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act — ( ) — Earnings foreign subsidiaries ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Foreign-derived intangible income deduction ( , ) ( ) ( ) Research and development credit, net ( , ) ( ) ( ) Excess tax benefits from equity awards ( , ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % Apple Inc. | Form - | Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities September , and September , , the significant components the Company’ deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Deferred tax assets: Amortization and depreciation $ , $ , Accrued liabilities and other reserves , , Lease liabilities , , Deferred revenue , , Tax credit carryforwards , Other , , Total deferred tax assets , , Less: Valuation allowance ( , ) ( , ) Total deferred tax assets, net , , Deferred tax liabilities: Minimum tax foreign earnings , , Right- -use assets , , Unrealized gains Other Total deferred tax liabilities , , Net deferred tax assets $ , $ , Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax credits and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. The Company has elected record certain deferred tax assets and liabilities connection with the minimum tax certain foreign earnings created the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”). September , , the Company had $ billion foreign tax credit carryforwards Ireland and $ billion California research and development credit carryforwards, both which can carried forward indefinitely. valuation allowance has been recorded for the tax credit carryforwards and portion other temporary differences. Uncertain Tax Positions September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, which $ billion, recognized, would impact the Company’ effective tax rate. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, which $ billion, recognized, would have impacted the Company’ effective tax rate. The aggregate change the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, for , and , follows ( millions): Beginning balances $ , $ , $ , Increases related tax positions taken during prior year , Decreases related tax positions taken during prior year ( , ) ( ) ( ) Increases related tax positions taken during the current year , , , Decreases related settlements with taxing authorities ( , ) ( ) ( ) Decreases related expiration the statute limitations ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending balances $ , $ , $ , The Company subject taxation and files income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisd ictions. Tax years after for the . federal jurisdiction, and after certain major foreign jurisdictions, remain subject examination. Although the timing resolution and closure examinations not certain, the Company believes reasonably possible that its gross unrecognized tax benefits could decrease the next months much $ billion. Apple Inc. | Form - | Interest and Penalties The Company includes interest and penalties related income tax matters within the provision for income taxes. September , and September , , the total amount gross interest and penalties accrued was $ billion and $ billion, respectively. The Company recognized interest and penalty expense $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. European Commission State Aid Decision August , , the European Commission announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid the Company providing tax opinions and concerning the tax allocation profits the Irish branches two subsidiaries the Company (the “State Aid Decision”). The State Aid Decision ordered Ireland calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the period June through December . Irish legislative changes, effective January , eliminated the application the tax opinions from that date forward. The recovery amount was calculated € billion, plus interest € billion. The Company and Ireland appealed the State Aid Decision the General Court the Court Justice the European Union (the “General Court”). July , , the General Court annulled the State Aid Decision. September , , the European Commission appealed the General Court’ decision the European Court Justice. The Company believes that any incremental Irish corporate income taxes potentially due related the State Aid Decision would creditable against . taxes, subject any foreign tax credit limitations the Act. annual basis, the Company may request approval from the Irish Minister for Finance reduce the recovery amount for certain taxes paid other countries. September , , the adjusted recovery amount was € billion, excluding interest. The adjusted recovery amount plus interest funded into escrow, where will remain restricted from general use pending the conclusion all legal proceedings. Refer the Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities section Note , “Financial Instruments” for more information. Note – Leases The Company has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including retail, corporate, manufacturing and data center space. These leases typically have original terms not exceeding years and generally contain multiyear renewal options, some which are reasonably certain exercise. The Company’ lease arrangements may contain both lease and nonlease components. The Company has elected combine and account for lease and nonlease components single lease component for leases retail, corporate, and data center facilities. Payments under the Company’ lease arrangements may fixed variable, and variable lease payments are primarily based purchases output the underlying leased assets. Lease costs associated with fixed payments the Company’ operating leases were $ billion and $ billion for and , respectively. Lease costs associated with variable payments the Company’ leases were $ billion and $ billion for and , respectively. Rent expense for operating leases, previously reported under former lease accounting standards, was $ billion . The Company made $ billion and $ billion fixed cash payments related operating leases and , respectively. Noncash activities involving right- -use (“ROU”) assets obtained exchange for lease liabilities were $ billion for and $ billion for , including the impact adopting FASB ASU . - , Leases (Topic ) the first quarter . The following table shows ROU assets and lease liabilities, and the associated financial statement line items, September , and September , ( millions): Lease-Related Assets and Liabilities Financial Statement Line Items Right- -use assets: Operating leases Other non-current assets $ , $ , Finance leases Property, plant and equipment, net Total right- -use assets $ , $ , Lease liabilities: Operating leases Other current liabilities $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities , , Finance leases Other current liabilities Other non-current liabilities Total lease liabilities $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Lease liability maturities September , , are follows ( millions): Operating Leases Finance Leases Total $ , $ $ , , , , , , , , , Thereafter , , Total undiscounted liabilities , , , Less: Imputed interest ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Total lease liabilities $ , $ $ , The weighted-average remaining lease term related the Company’ lease liabilities September , and September , was years and years, respectively. The discount rate related the Company’ lease liabilities both September , and September , was %. The discount rates are generally based estimates the Company’ incremental borrowing rate, the discount rates implicit the Company’ leases cannot readily determined. September , , the Company had $ billion future payments under additional leases, primarily for corporate facilities and retail space, that had not yet commenced. These leases will commence between and , with lease terms ranging from years years. Note – Debt Commercial Paper and Repurchase Agreements The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant commercial paper program. The Company uses net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. September , and September , , the Company had $ billion and $ billion Commercial Paper outstanding, respectively, with maturities generally less than nine months . The weighted-average interest rate the Company’ Commercial Paper was % and % September , and September , , respectively. The following table provides summary cash flows associated with the issuance and maturities Commercial Paper for , and ( millions): Maturities days less: Proceeds from/(Repayments ) commercial paper, net $ ( ) $ $ ( , ) Maturities greater than days: Proceeds from commercial paper , , , Repayments commercial paper ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from/(Repayments ) commercial paper, net , ( , ) ( , ) Total proceeds from/(repayments ) commercial paper, net $ , $ ( ) $ ( , ) , the Company entered into agreements sell certain its marketable securities with promise repurchase the securities specified time and amount (“Repos”). Due the Company’ continuing involvement with the marketable securities, the Company accounted for its Repos collateralized borrowings. The Company entered into $ billion Repos during , all which had been settled September , . Apple Inc. | Form - | Term Debt September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate principal amount $ billion (collectively the “Notes”). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and interest payable arrears. The following table provides summary the Company’ term debt September , and September , : Maturities (calendar year) Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate – debt issuances: Floating-rate notes $ , % – % $ , % – % Fixed-rate % – % notes – , % – % , % – % Second quarter debt issuance: Fixed-rate % – % notes – , % – % — — % Fourth quarter debt issuance: Fixed-rate % – % notes – , % – % — — % Total term debt , , Unamortized premium/(discount) and issuance costs, net ( ) ( ) Hedge accounting fair value adjustments , , Less: Current portion term debt ( , ) ( , ) Total non-current portion term debt $ , $ , manage interest rate risk certain its . dollar–denominated fixed- floating-rate notes, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps effectively convert the fixed interest rates floating interest rates the floating interest rates fixed interest rates portion these notes. Additionally, manage foreign currency risk certain its foreign currency–denominated notes, the Company has entered into foreign currency swaps effectively convert these notes . dollar–denominated notes. The effective interest rates for the Notes include the interest the Notes, amortization the discount premium and, applicable, adjustments related hedging. The Company recognized $ billion, $ billion and $ billion interest expense its term debt for , and , respectively. The future principal payments for the Company’ Notes September , , are follows ( millions): $ , , , , , Thereafter , Total term debt $ , September , and September , , the fair value the Company’ Notes, based Level inputs, was $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Shareholders’ Equity Share Repurchase Program September , , the Company was authorized purchase $ billion the Company’ common stock under share repurchase program (the “Program”). During , the Company repurchased million shares its common stock for $ billion, including million shares delivered under $ billion accelerated share repurchase agreement entered into May , bringing the total utilization under the Program $ billion September , . The Program does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares. Under the Program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the “Exchange Act”). Shares Common Stock The following table shows the changes shares common stock for , and ( thousands): Common stock outstanding, beginning balances , , , , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Common stock issued, net shares withheld for employee taxes , , , Common stock outstanding, ending balances , , , , , , Note – Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan The Employee Stock Plan (the “ Plan”) shareholder-approved plan that provides for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers, and permits the granting restricted stock units (“RSUs”), stock grants, performance-based awards, stock options and stock appreciation rights, well cash bonus awards. RSUs granted under the Plan generally vest over four years , based continued employment, and are settled upon vesting shares the Company’ common stock one -for-one basis. RSUs granted under the Plan reduce the number shares available for grant under the plan factor two times the number RSUs granted. RSUs canceled and shares withheld satisfy tax withholding obligations increase the number shares available for grant under the Plan utilizing factor two times the number RSUs canceled shares withheld. All RSUs granted under the Plan have dividend equivalent rights (“DERs”), which entitle holders RSUs the same dividend value per share holders common stock. DERs are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the underlying RSUs. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Plan. Shares subject outstanding awards under the Employee Stock Plan that expire, are canceled otherwise terminate, are withheld satisfy tax withholding obligations for RSUs, will also available for awards under the Plan. Apple Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Plan The Apple Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Plan (the “Director Plan”) shareholder-approved plan that ( ) permits the Company grant awards RSUs stock options the Company’ non-employee directors, ( ) provides for automatic initial grants RSUs upon non-employee director joining the Board Directors and automatic annual grants RSUs each annual meeting shareholders, and (iii) permits the Board Directors prospectively change the value and relative mixture stock options and RSUs for the initial and annual award grants and the methodology for determining the number shares the Company’ common stock subject these grants, each case within the limits set forth the Director Plan and without further shareholder approval. RSUs granted under the Director Plan reduce the number shares available for grant under the plan factor two times the number RSUs granted. The Director Plan expires November , . All RSUs granted under the Director Plan are entitled DERs, which are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the underlying RSUs. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Director Plan. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans During the three months ended September , , Section officers Katherine . Adams, Timothy . Cook, Luca Maestri, Deirdre ’Brien and Jeffrey Williams had equity trading plans place accordance with Rule 10b5- ( )( ) under the Exchange Act. equity trading plan written document that preestablishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company’ stock, including shares acquired under the Company’ employee and director equity plans. Apple Inc. | Form - | Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “Purchase Plan”) shareholder-approved plan under which substantially all employees may voluntarily enroll purchase the Company’ common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the stock the beginning the end six-month offering periods. employee’ payroll deductions under the Purchase Plan are limited % the employee’ compensation and employees may not purchase more than $ , stock during any calendar year. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. ( ) Plan The Company’ ( ) Plan deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the ( ) Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pretax earnings, the . Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee’ contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee’ eligible earnings. Restricted Stock Units summary the Company’ RSU activity and related information for , and , follows: Number RSUs ( thousands) Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value Per RSU Aggregate Fair Value ( millions) Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ $ , The fair value the respective vesting dates RSUs was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. The majority RSUs that vested , and were net share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the employees’ obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld were approximately million, million and million for , and , respectively, and were based the value the RSUs their respective vesting dates determined the Company’ closing stock price. Total payments for the employees’ tax obligations taxing authorities were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. Share-Based Compensation The following table shows share-based compensation expense and the related income tax benefit included the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and ( millions): Share-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefit related share-based compensation expense $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) September , , the total unrecognized compensation cost related outstanding RSUs and stock options was $ billion, which the Company expects recognize over weighted-average period years. Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Commitments and Contingencies Accrued Warranty and Guarantees The following table shows changes the Company’ accrued warranties and related costs for , and ( millions): Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ , $ , Cost warranty claims ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accruals for product warranty , , , Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ , $ , The Company offers iPhone Upgrade Program, which available customers who purchase qualifying iPhone the ., the . and China mainland. The iPhone Upgrade Program provides customers the right trade that iPhone for specified amount when purchasing new iPhone, provided certain conditions are met. The Company accounts for the trade- right guarantee liability and recognizes arrangement revenue net the fair value such right, with subsequent changes the guarantee liability recognized within net sales. Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company’ business are generally available from multiple sources, certain components are currently obtained from single limited sources. The Company also competes for various components with other participants the markets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components; however, there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Substantially all the Company’ hardware products are manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured the . and Ireland. Unconditional Purchase Obligations The Company has entered into certain off–balance sheet commitments that require the future purchase goods services (“unconditional purchase obligations”). The Company’ unconditional purchase obligations primarily consist payments for content creation, Internet and telecommunications services and supplier arrangements. Future payments under noncancelable unconditional purchase obligations having remaining term excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): $ , , Thereafter Total $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Contingencies The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and that have not been fully resolved. The outcome litigation inherently uncertain. When loss related legal proceeding claim probable and reasonably estimable, the Company accrues its best estimate for the ultimate resolution the matter. one more legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts above management’ expectations, the Company’ financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss greater than recorded accrual, concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims, except for the following matters: VirnetX VirnetX, Inc. (“VirnetX”) filed lawsuit against the Company alleging that certain the Company’ products infringe patents owned VirnetX. April , , jury returned verdict against the Company the . District Court for the Eastern District Texas (the “Eastern Texas District Court”). The Company appealed the verdict the . Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which remanded the case back the Eastern Texas District Court, where retrial was held October . The jury returned verdict against the Company and awarded damages $ million, which the Company has appealed. The Company has challenged the validity the patents issue the retrial the . Patent and Trademark Office (the “PTO”), and the PTO has declared the patents invalid, subject further appeal VirnetX. iOS Performance Management Cases April , , several . federal actions alleging violation consumer protection laws, fraud, computer intrusion and other causes action related the Company’ performance management feature used its iPhone operating systems, introduced certain iPhones iOS updates and , were consolidated through Multidistrict Litigation process into single action the . District Court for the Northern District California (the “Northern California District Court”). February , , the parties the Multidistrict Litigation reached settlement resolve the . federal and California state class actions. March , , the Northern California District Court granted final approval the Multidistrict Litigation settlement, which will result aggregate payment $ million settle all claims. The Company continues believe that its iPhones were not defective, that the performance management feature introduced with iOS updates and was intended , and did, improve customers’ user experience, and that the Company did not make any misleading statements fail disclose any material information. French Competition Authority March , , the French Competition Authority (“FCA”) announced its decision that aspects the Company’ sales and distribution practices France violate French competition law, and issued fine € billion. The Company strongly disagrees with the FCA’ decision, and has appealed. Optis Optis Wireless Technology, LLC and related entities (“Optis”) filed lawsuit the . District Court for the Eastern District Texas against the Company alleging that certain the Company’ products infringe patents owned Optis. August , , jury returned verdict against the Company and awarded damages. post-trial proceedings, the damages portion the verdict was set aside. retrial damages was held August and the jury that proceeding awarded damages $ million against the Company, which the Company plans appeal. Note – Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company reports segment information based the “management” approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company’ reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company’ reportable segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company’ other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one managed separately better align with the location the Company’ customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. The accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , “Summary Significant Accounting Policies.” Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company evaluates the performance its reportable segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location customers and sales through the Company’ retail stores located those geographic locations. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Advertising expenses are generally included the geographic segment which the expenditures are incurred. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses managed outside the reportable segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses such research and development, corporate marketing expenses, certain share-based compensation expenses, income taxes, various nonrecurring charges and other separately managed general and administrative costs. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. The following table shows information reportable segment for , and ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Greater China: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Japan: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Rest Asia Pacific: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , reconciliation the Company’ segment operating income the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and follows ( millions): Segment operating income $ , $ , $ , Research and development expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other corporate expenses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | The . and China were the only countries that accounted for more than % the Company’ net sales , and . There was single customer that accounted for more than % net sales , and . Net sales for , and and long-lived assets September , and September , were follows ( millions): Net sales: . $ , $ , $ , China ( ) , , , Other countries , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Long-lived assets: . $ , $ , China ( ) , , Other countries , , Total long-lived assets $ , $ , ( ) China includes Hong Kong and Taiwan. Long-lived assets located China consist primarily product tooling and manufacturing process equipment and assets related retail stores and related infrastructure. Apple Inc. | Form - | Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm the Shareholders and the Board Directors Apple Inc. Opinion the Financial Statements have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , and the related notes (collectively referred the “financial statements”). our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), Apple Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility Apple Inc.’ management. Our responsibility express opinion Apple Inc.’ financial statements based our audits. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect Apple Inc. accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the . Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement, whether due error fraud. Our audits included performing procedures assess the risks material misstatement the financial statements, whether due error fraud, and performing procedures that respond those risks. Such procedures included examining, test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall presentation the financial statements. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below matter arising from the current period audit the financial statements that was communicated required communicated the audit committee and that: ( ) relates accounts disclosures that are material the financial statements and ( ) involved our especially challenging, subjective, complex judgments. The communication the critical audit matter does not alter any way our opinion the financial statements, taken whole, and are not, communicating the critical audit matter below, providing separate opinion the critical audit matter the account disclosure which relates. Uncertain Tax Positions Description the Matter discussed Note the financial statements, Apple Inc. subject taxation and files income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, which $ billion, recognized, would impact Apple Inc.’ effective tax rate. Apple Inc. uses significant judgment the calculation tax liabilities estimating the impact uncertainties the application technical merits and complex tax laws. Auditing management’ evaluation whether uncertain tax position more likely than not sustained and the measurement the benefit various tax positions can complex, involves significant judgment, and based interpretations tax laws and legal rulings. Apple Inc. | Form - | How Addressed the Matter Our Audit tested controls relating the evaluation uncertain tax positions, including controls over management’ assessment whether tax positions are more likely than not sustained, management’ process measure the benefit its tax positions, and the development the related disclosures. evaluate Apple Inc.’ assessment which tax positions are more likely than not sustained, our audit procedures included, among others, reading and evaluating management’ assumptions and analysis, and, applicable, Apple Inc.’ communications with taxing authorities, that detailed the basis and technical merits the uncertain tax positions. involved our tax subject matter resources assessing the technical merits certain Apple Inc.’ tax positions based our knowledge relevant tax laws and experience with related taxing authorities. For certain tax positions, also received external legal counsel confirmation letters and discussed the matters with external advisors and Apple Inc. tax personnel. addition, evaluated Apple Inc.’ disclosure relation these matters included Note the financial statements. / / Ernst & Young LLP have served Apple Inc.’ auditor since . San Jose, California October , Apple Inc. | Form - | Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm the Shareholders and the Board Directors Apple Inc. Opinion Internal Control Over Financial Reporting have audited Apple Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (the “COSO criteria”). our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), the consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , and the related notes and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion Apple Inc.’ management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management’ Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion Apple Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting based our audit. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect Apple Inc. accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the . Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations Internal Control Over Financial Reporting company’ internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company’ management, the Company’ principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company’ disclosure controls and procedures defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Exchange Act were effective September , provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the SEC rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company’ management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations over Internal Controls The Company’ internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The Company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company’ assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP, and that the Company’ receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company’ management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company’ Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company’ internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management’ Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting The Company’ management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted assessment the effectiveness the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework). Based the Company’ assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective September , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP. The Company’ independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report the Company’ internal control over financial reporting, which appears Part , Item this Form - . Changes Internal Control over Financial Reporting There were changes the Company’ internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter , which were identified connection with management’ evaluation required paragraph ( ) Rules 13a- and 15d- under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company’ internal control over financial reporting. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information Disclosure Pursuant Section ( ) the Exchange Act Under Section ( ) the Exchange Act, the Company required disclose its periodic reports any its affiliates knowingly conducted transaction dealing with entities individuals designated pursuant certain Executive Orders. March , , the . Secretary State designated the Russian Federal Security Service (the “FSB”) blocked party under Executive Order . the same day, the . Department the Treasury’ Office Foreign Assets Control updated General License . authorize transactions and activities with the FSB that are necessary and ordinarily incident requesting, receiving, utilizing, paying for, dealing certain licenses, permits, certifications notifications issued registered the FSB for the importation, distribution use certain information technology products the Russian Federation. previously disclosed the Company’ Quarterly Report Form - for the three-month period ended June , , during such period, the Company filed legally required administrative notifications with the FSB connection with the importation the Company’ products into the Russian Federation, permitted General License . . The Company did not make any payments, nor did receive gross revenues net profits, connection with such engagement. The Company may the future engage with the FSB for activities necessary conduct business the Russian Federation, accordance with applicable . laws and regulations. ', 'item 9c. ': 'Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this Item included the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , connection with the solicitation proxies for the Company’ annual meeting shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this Item included the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this Item included the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this Item included the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services The information required this Item included the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , , and incorporated herein reference. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules ( ) Documents filed part this report ( ) All financial statements Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page ( ) Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included this Form - . ( ) Exhibits required Item Regulation - ( ) Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date - - ** - - - - - - - Apple Inc. | Form - | Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - * - Apple Inc. | Form - | Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - ** ** ** ** ** *** ** Inline XBRL Document Set for the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes Part , Item , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” this Annual Report Form - . ** Inline XBRL for the cover page this Annual Report Form - , included the Exhibit Inline XBRL Document Set. * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ** Filed herewith. *** Furnished herewith. ( ) Certain instruments defining the rights holders long-term debt securities the Registrant are omitted pursuant Item ( )( )(iii) Regulation - . The Registrant hereby undertakes furnish the SEC, upon request, copies any such instruments. ', 'item 16. ': 'Form - Summary None. Apple Inc. | Form - | '}