{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Microsoft was founded . Our mission enable people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. work achieve this mission creating technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate. develop and market software, services, and hardware that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value people\x92 lives. business worldwide and have offices more than countries. generate revenue developing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products and services, designing and selling hardware, and delivering relevant online advertising global customer audience. addition selling individual products and services, offer suites products and services. Our products include operating systems for personal computers (\x93PCs\x94), servers, phones, and other intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; productivity applications; business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; video games; and online advertising. also design and sell hardware including the Xbox gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox , Xbox accessories, and Microsoft hardware products. provide consulting and product and solution support services, and train and certify computer system integrators and developers. also offer cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services and content over the Internet way shared computing resources located centralized data centers. Cloud revenue earned primarily from usage fees and advertising. Examples cloud-based computing services offer include: \x95 Bing, our Internet search engine that finds and organizes the answers people need they can make faster, more informed decisions; \x95 Windows Live Essentials suite, which allows users upload, organize and store photos, make movies, communicate via video, email, and messaging, and enhance online safety; \x95 Xbox LIVE service, which enables online gaming, social networking, and access wide range video, gaming, and entertainment content; \x95 Microsoft Office , online suite that enables people work from virtually anywhere, anytime, and any device with simple, familiar collaboration and communication solutions, including Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync; PART Item \x95 Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online customer relationship management services for sales, service and marketing professionals provided through familiar Microsoft Outlook interface; and \x95 the Azure family platform and database services that helps developers connect applications and services the cloud premise. These services include Windows Azure, scalable operating system with computing, storage, hosting and management capabilities, and Microsoft SQL Azure, relational database. also conduct research and develop advanced technologies for future software products and services. believe that delivering innovative, high-value solutions through our integrated software and services platforms the key meeting our customers\x92 needs and our future growth. believe that will continue grow delivering compelling new products and services, creating new opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction, and improving our service excellence, business efficacy, and internal processes. OPERATING SEGMENTS operate our business five segments: Windows & Windows Live Division, Server and Tools, Online Services Division, Microsoft Business Division, and Entertainment and Devices Division. Our segments provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide framework for timely and rational allocation development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. Additional information our operating segments and geographic and product information contained Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). Windows & Windows Live Division Windows & Windows Live Division (\x93Windows Division\x94) develops and markets operating systems, related software and online services, and hardware products. This collection software, hardware, and services designed simplify everyday tasks through efficient Web browsing and seamless operations across the user\x92 hardware and software. Windows Division revenue growth largely correlated the growth the market worldwide, approximately % total Windows Division revenue comes from Windows operating system software purchased original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94), which they pre-install equipment they sell. addition market changes, Windows revenue impacted : \x95 hardware market changes driven shifts between developed markets and emerging markets, consumer PCs and business PCs, and among varying forms computing devices; \x95 the attachment Windows PCs shipped and changes inventory levels within the OEM channel; and \x95 pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation associated with OEM channel shifts from local and regional system builders large, multinational OEMs, and different pricing Windows versions licensed. Principal Products and Services : Windows and prior versions the Windows operating system; Windows Live suite applications and web services; and Microsoft hardware products. Competition The Windows operating system faces competition from various commercial software products offered well-established companies, mainly Apple and Google. The Windows operating system also faces competition from alternative platforms and devices that may reduce demand for PCs. User and usage volumes mobile devices are increasing worldwide relative the . believe Windows competes effectively giving customers choice, flexibility, security, familiar and easy- -use interface, compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, and the largest support network for any operating system. PART Item Windows Live software and services compete with Apple, Google, Yahoo!, and wide array Web sites and portals that provide communication and sharing tools and services. Our hardware products face competition from computer and other hardware manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners. Server and Tools Server and Tools develops and markets server software, software developer tools, services, and solutions that are designed make information technology professionals and developers and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed support software applications built the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform, database, storage, management and operations, service-oriented architecture platform, security and identity software. Server and Tools also builds standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server offerings can run -site, partner-hosted environment, Microsoft-hosted environment. Our cloud-based services comprise scalable operating system with computing, storage, and management capabilities and relational database, which allow customers run enterprise workloads and web applications the cloud. These services also include platform that helps developers connect applications and services the cloud premise. Our goal enable customers devote more resources development and use applications that benefit their business, rather than the management -premise hardware and software. Server and Tools offers broad range enterprise consulting and product support services (\x93Enterprise Services\x94) that assist customers developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions. Server and Tools also provides training and certification developers and information technology professionals for our Server and Tools, Microsoft Business Division, and Windows & Windows Live Division products and services. Approximately % Server and Tools revenue comes primarily from multi-year volume licensing agreements, approximately % purchased through transactional volume licensing programs, retail packaged product and licenses sold OEMs, and the remainder comes from Enterprise Services. Principal Products and Services : Windows Server operating systems; Windows Azure; Microsoft SQL Server; SQL Azure; Windows Intune; Windows Embedded; Visual Studio; Silverlight; System Center products; Microsoft Consulting Services; and Premier product support services. Competition Our server operating system products face competition from wide variety server operating systems and applications offered companies with range market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions the Unix operating system preinstalled server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute Linux operating system development. The competitive position Linux has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many commercial and non-commercial software developers. number companies, such Red Hat, supply versions Linux. compete provide enterprise-wide computing solutions with several companies that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms. IBM and Oracle lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition. Commercial software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our Web application platform software competes with open source software such Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP, and compete against Java middleware such Geronimo, JBoss, and Spring Framework. Numerous commercial software vendors offer competing software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and -business servers. System Center competes with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such BMC, Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMWare PART Item the management information technology infrastructures. SQL Server competes with products from IBM, Oracle, Sybase, and other companies providing database, business intelligence and data warehousing solutions. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, other companies, and open-source projects. Competing open source projects include Eclipse (sponsored Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby Rails, among others. The embedded operating system business highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include IBM, Intel, and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. Our cloud-based services offerings also have many competitors. Windows Azure faces competition from Amazon, Google, Salesforce com, and VMWare. SQL Azure faces competition from IBM, Oracle, and other open source offerings. For Enterprise Services, compete with large group diverse companies, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused specific technologies. believe our server products, cloud-based services and Enterprise Services provide customers with advantages innovation, performance, total costs ownership, and productivity delivering superior applications, development tools, and compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Online Services Division Online Services Division (\x93OSD\x94) develops and markets information and content designed help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, and that help advertisers connect with audiences. OSD offerings include Bing, MSN, adCenter, and advertiser tools. Bing and MSN generate revenue through the sale search and display advertising. Search and display advertising generally accounts for nearly all OSD\x92 annual revenue. provide updated and new online offerings frequent basis. December , entered into definitive agreement with Yahoo! whereby Microsoft will provide the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! Web sites worldwide. completed the algorithmic transition the . and Canada July and the paid search transition October and have begun transitioning algorithmic search international markets. believe this agreement will allow improve the effectiveness and increase the value our search offering through greater scale search queries and expanded and more competitive search and advertising marketplace. Principal Products and Services : Bing; Microsoft adCenter; MSN; and Atlas online tools for advertisers. Competition OSD competes with Google, Yahoo!, and wide array Web sites and portals that provide content and online offerings end users. compete with these organizations provide advertising opportunities for merchants. Competitors are continuously developing Internet offerings that seek provide more effective ways connecting advertisers with audiences. believe our search engine, Bing, helps users make faster, more informed decisions providing relevant search results, expanded search services, social recommendations, and broad selection content. have enhanced the user interface bring richer search experience. also invest improving the scale our advertising platform serve both owned and operated and third-party online properties. will continue introduce new products and services improve the user online experience. believe that can compete effectively attracting new users, understanding their intent, and matching their intent with relevant content, advertiser offerings, and software services. Microsoft Business Division Microsoft Business Division (\x93MBD\x94) offerings consist the Microsoft Office system (comprising mainly Office, SharePoint, Exchange and Lync) and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity through range programs, services, and PART Item software solutions, which may delivered either premise cloud-based service. Growth revenue from the Microsoft Office system offerings, which generate over % MBD revenue, depends our ability add value the core Office product set and continue expand our product offerings other areas such content management, enterprise search, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management (\x93CRM\x94), supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. Approximately % MBD revenue generated from sales businesses, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Revenue from this category generally depends upon the number information workers licensed enterprise and therefore relatively independent the number PCs sold given year. Approximately % MBD revenue derived from sales consumers, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. This revenue generally affected the level shipments and product launches. Principal Products and Services : Microsoft Office; Microsoft Exchange; Microsoft SharePoint; Microsoft Lync; Microsoft Dynamics ERP and Dynamics CRM; and Microsoft Office Web Apps, which are the online companions Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote. June , MBD launched Office , which online services offering Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync. Competition Competitors the Microsoft Office system include software application vendors such Adobe, Apple, Corel, Google, IBM, Oracle, and numerous Web-based competitors well local application developers Asia and Europe. Apple may distribute certain versions its application software products with various models its PCs and through its mobile devices. Corel and IBM have measurable installed bases with their office productivity products. Google provides hosted messaging and productivity suite that competes with Microsoft Office, Microsoft Exchange, and Microsoft SharePoint, including its FAST enterprise search technology. The OpenOffice org project provides freely downloadable cross-platform application that also has been adapted various commercial software vendors sell under their brands. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications can also position themselves alternatives Microsoft Office system products. Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such Infor and Sage the market focused providing business solutions for small and mid-sized businesses. The market for large organizations and divisions global enterprises intensely competitive with small number primary vendors including Oracle and SAP. Additionally, Salesforce com\x92 -demand CRM offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online and Microsoft Dynamics CRM\x92 -premise offerings. continue create additional functionality and products, compete with additional vendors, most notably content management and enterprise search, collaboration tools, unified communications, and business intelligence. These competitors include Cisco, Google, IBM, Oracle, and SAP. believe our products compete effectively based our strategy providing flexible, easy use solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have. Entertainment and Devices Division Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) develops and markets products and services designed entertain and connect people. The Xbox entertainment platform, including Kinect, designed provide unique variety entertainment choices for individuals and families through the use our devices, peripherals, content, and online services. Mediaroom designed provide live, recorded, and -demand television programming regardless your location device. Windows Phone designed bring users closer the people, applications, and content they need, while providing unique capabilities such Microsoft Office and Xbox LIVE functionality. PART Item Nokia strategic alliance April , , Microsoft and Nokia entered into definitive agreements form strategic alliance jointly create new mobile products and services and extend established products and services new markets. Microsoft will license Nokia and Nokia will adopt Windows Phone Nokia\x92 primary smartphone platform. Microsoft will receive running royalty competitive rate from Nokia for the Windows Phone platform, with minimum commitments reflecting the large volumes Nokia expects ship. will also provide Nokia with developer tools accelerate developer support for Windows and Windows-related platforms. Microsoft and Nokia will collaborate joint developer outreach and application sourcing. Microsoft\x92 Windows Marketplace infrastructure will support new Nokia-branded application store. Participants the Windows Phone ecosystem will able take advantage Nokia\x92 billing agreements with operators markets worldwide. Nokia will deliver mapping, navigation, and location-based services the Windows Phone ecosystem and will deliver core set mapping services for broader set Microsoft\x92 map-based offerings. Microsoft\x92 Bing and adCenter will power search and advertising Nokia\x92 devices and services. Nokia will innovate and customize the Windows Phone platform, contributing its expertise hardware, design, and language support and will help bring Windows Phone broader range price points, market segments and geographies. Microsoft will make annual payments Nokia, recognition the unique nature Nokia\x92 agreement with Microsoft and the contributions that Nokia providing. The agreements recognize the value intellectual property portfolios and put place mechanisms for exchanging rights intellectual property. part these arrangements, Nokia will receive payments including consideration paid part mutual release. Principal Products and Services: Xbox gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox , Xbox video games, Xbox accessories; Xbox LIVE; Mediaroom; and Windows Phone. Competition Entertainment and devices businesses are highly competitive, characterized rapid product life cycles, frequent introductions new products and game titles, and the development new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized significant price competition, and anticipate continued pricing pressure from our competitors. Our competitors vary size from very small companies with limited resources very large, diversified corporations with substantial financial and marketing resources. compete primarily the basis product innovation, quality and variety, timing product releases, and effectiveness distribution and marketing. Our Xbox gaming and entertainment business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large, established base customers. The lifecycle for gaming and entertainment consoles averages five years. released Xbox , our second generation console, November . Nintendo and Sony released new versions their game consoles late . believe the success gaming and entertainment consoles determined the availability games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability the console, and the ability create new experiences via online services, downloadable content, and peripherals. addition Nintendo and Sony, our businesses compete with both Apple and Google offering content products and services the consumer. believe the Xbox entertainment platform positioned well against competitive products and services based significant innovation hardware architecture, new developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises well other digital content offerings. Windows Phone faces competition primarily from Apple, Google, and Research Motion. Mediaroom faces competition primarily from variety competitors that provide elements Internet protocol television delivery platform, but that not provide end- -end solutions for the network operator. PART Item OPERATIONS have operations centers that support all operations their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center Singapore supports the Japan, Greater China, and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. addition the operations centers, also operate data centers throughout the . and Europe. serve the needs customers around the world and improve the quality and usability products international markets, localize many our products reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. contract most our manufacturing activities for Xbox and related games, Kinect for Xbox , various retail software packaged products, and Microsoft hardware third parties. Our products may include some components that are available from only one limited sources. Our Xbox console and Kinect for Xbox include key components that are supplied single source. The integrated central processing unit graphics processing unit purchased from IBM, and the supporting embedded dynamic random access memory chips are purchased from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. Although have chosen initially source these components from single supplier, are under obligation exclusively source the components from these vendors the future. generally have the ability use other manufacturers the current vendor becomes unavailable. generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. These amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years. plan continue make significant investments broad range research and product development efforts. Product Development and Intellectual Property Most our software products and services are developed internally. Internal development allows maintain competitive advantages that come from closer technical control over our products and services. also gives the freedom decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. strive obtain information early possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, provide application vendors with range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, also create product documentation internally. protect our investments innovation variety ways. work actively the . and internationally ensure the enforcement copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply our software products, services, business plans, and branding. are leader among technology companies pursuing patents and currently have portfolio over , . and international patents issued and over , pending. While employ many our innovations exclusively Microsoft products and services, also engage outbound and inbound licensing specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees\x92 Microsoft\x92 products. From time time, enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups patents. From time time, purchase license technology that incorporate our products services. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects our products and business methods, believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. believe our continuing innovation and product development are not materially dependent any single license other agreement with third party relating the development our products. PART Item Investing Innovation Innovation the foundation for Microsoft\x92 success. Our model for growth based our ability initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, enter new markets, both terms geographies and product areas, and drive broad adoption the products and services develop and market. Our innovation investments focus the emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that believe offer significant opportunities deliver value our customers and growth for the company. maintain our long-term commitment research and development across wide spectrum technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and collaboration; information access and organization; entertainment; business and -commerce; advertising; and devices. While our main research and development facilities are located Redmond, Washington, also operate research and development facilities other parts the . and around the world, including Canada, China, Denmark, England, India, Ireland, and Israel. This global approach will help remain competitive local markets and enable continue attract top talent from across the world. generally fund research the corporate level ensure that are looking beyond immediate product considerations opportunities further the future. also fund research and development activities the business segment level. Many the innovations created our business segments are coordinated with other segments and leveraged across the company. addition our main research and development operations, also operate Microsoft Research. Microsoft Research one the world\x92 largest computer science research organizations, and works close collaboration with top universities around the world advance the state- -the-art computer science, providing unique perspective future technology trends. Based our assessment key technology trends and our broad focus long-term research and development new products and services, areas where see significant opportunities drive future growth include smart connected devices, cloud computing, entertainment, search, communications, and productivity. DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING market and distribute our products and services primarily through the following channels: OEM; distributors and resellers; and online. OEM distribute software through OEMs that pre-install our software new PCs, servers, smartphones, and other intelligent devices that they sell end customers. The largest component the OEM business the Windows operating system pre-installed PCs. OEMs also sell hardware pre-installed with other Microsoft products, including server operating systems and application products and desktop applications such our Microsoft Office suite. addition these products, also market through OEMs software services such our Windows Live Essentials suite. There are two broad categories OEMs. The largest OEMs, many which operate globally, are referred \x93Direct OEMs,\x94 our relationship with them managed through direct agreement between Microsoft and the manufacturer. have distribution agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Acer, ASUSTek, Dell, Fujitsu, HTC, Hewlett-Packard, , Lenovo, NEC, Nokia, Samsung, Sony, Toshiba, and with many regional and local OEMs, including Medion, MSI, and Positivo. The second broad category OEMs consists lower-volume manufacturers (also called \x93System Builders\x94), which source their Microsoft software for pre-installation and local redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than through direct agreement relationship with Microsoft. Some the distributors the Microsoft distributor channel are global, such Ingram Micro and Tech Data, but most operate local regional level. PART Item Distributors and Resellers Many organizations that license our products and services through enterprise agreements transact directly with , with sales support from solution integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and developers that advise organizations licensing our products and services (\x93Enterprise Software Advisors\x94). Organizations also license our products and services indirectly, primarily through large account resellers (\x93LARs\x94), distributors, value-added resellers (\x93VARs\x94), OEMs, system builder channels and retailers. Although each type reselling partner reaches organizations all sizes, LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily VARs, and VARs typically reach small-sized and medium-sized organizations. Enterprise Software Advisors typically are also authorized LARs and operate resellers for our other licensing programs, such the Select and Open licensing programs discussed under \x93Licensing Options\x94 below. Some our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some our largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Insight Enterprises, and Software House International. Our Microsoft Dynamics software offerings are licensed enterprises through global network channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products primarily through retail outlets, such Wal-Mart and Dixons. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers, and provides product training and sales support. Online Although client-based software will continue important part our business, increasingly are delivering additional value customers through cloud-based services. provide online content and services consumers through Bing, MSN portals and channels, Microsoft Office Web Apps, Microsoft Security Essentials, Windows Live Essentials suite, Windows Phone Marketplace, Xbox LIVE, and Zune Marketplace. provide content and services business users through the Microsoft Online Services platform, which includes cloud-based services such Business Productivity Online Standard Suite, Exchange Online, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Microsoft Lync, Microsoft Office , Microsoft Office Communications Online, Microsoft Office Live Meeting, SQL Azure, SharePoint Online, Windows Azure, and Windows Intune. Other services delivered online include our online advertising platform with offerings for advertisers, well Microsoft Developer Networks subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support our partners developing and selling our products and solutions. LICENSING OPTIONS license software organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer acquire multiple licenses products and services. Our arrangements for organizations acquire multiple licenses products and services are designed provide them with means doing without having acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. delivering organizational licensing arrangements the market, use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they include those discussed below. Open Licensing Designed primarily for small- -medium organizations ( over licenses), Open licensing programs allow customers acquire perpetual subscription licenses and, the customer\x92 election, rights future versions software products over specified time period (two three years depending the Open program used). The offering that conveys rights future versions certain software products over the contract period called software assurance. Software assurance also provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Under the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, licenses with software assurance. They can also renew software assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. PART Item Select Licensing Designed primarily for medium- -large organizations (greater than licenses), the Select program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, software assurance over specified time period (generally three years less). Similar the Open program, the Select program allows customers acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with software assurance, renew software assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Online services are also available for purchase through the Select program, and subscriptions are generally structured with terms between one and three years. Services Provider Licensing The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement (\x93SPLA\x94) program targeted service providers and Independent Software Vendors (\x93ISVs\x94) allowing these partners provide software services and hosted applications their end customers. Agreements are generally structured with three-year term, and partners are billed monthly based upon consumption. Enterprise Agreement Licensing Enterprise agreements are targeted medium and large organizations (greater than licenses) that want acquire licenses software products, along with software assurance, for all substantial parts their enterprise. Enterprises can elect either acquire perpetual licenses , under the Enterprise Subscription program, can acquire non-perpetual, subscription agreements for specified time period (generally three years). Online services are also available for purchase through the Enterprise agreement and subscriptions are generally structured with three year terms. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small- and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small- and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through distributors, resellers, and OEMs. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year , , revenue. Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers July , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Lisa . Brummel Senior Vice President, Human Resources Kurt . DelBene President, Microsoft Office Division Peter . Klein Chief Financial Officer Craig . Mundie Chief Research and Strategy Officer Satya Nadella President, Server and Tools Steven Sinofsky President, Windows & Windows Live Division Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President; General Counsel; Secretary . Kevin Turner Chief Operating Officer . Ballmer was appointed Chief Executive Officer January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . . Ballmer joined Microsoft . PART Item . Brummel was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources December . She had been Corporate Vice President, Human Resources since May . From May May , she had been Corporate Vice President the Home & Retail Division. Since joining Microsoft , . Brummel has held number management positions Microsoft, including general manager Consumer Productivity business, product unit manager the Kids business, and product unit manager Desktop and Decision reference products. . DelBene was named President, Microsoft Office Division September . served Senior Vice President for the Microsoft Business Division since . Since joining Microsoft , . DelBene has served several roles Microsoft\x92 product development teams, including Vice President Authoring and Collaboration Services, General Manager Microsoft Outlook, Group Program Manager for Microsoft Exchange, and Group Manager Microsoft\x92 Systems Division. . Klein was named Chief Financial Officer November . served Corporate Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Microsoft Business Division from February November and Chief Financial Officer Server and Tools from July February . . Klein joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Chief Research and Strategy Officer June . had been Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy since August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . . Mundie joined Microsoft . . Nadella was named President, Server and Tools February . Before holding that position, had number leadership positions Microsoft, including Senior Vice President Research and Development for the Online Services Division since and Corporate Vice President, Research and Development for the Advertising Platform since . From , . Nadella led Microsoft Business Solutions. Prior that, spent several years leading engineering efforts Microsoft\x92 Server group. . Nadella joined Microsoft . . Sinofsky was named President, Windows & Windows Live Division July . served Senior Vice President the Windows and Windows Live Engineering Group since December and Senior Vice President, Office from December December . had been Vice President, Office since December . . Sinofsky joined the Office team , increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release the desktop suite. . Sinofsky joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary November . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer effective July . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. . Smith joined Microsoft . . Turner was named Chief Operating Officer September . Before joining Microsoft, was Executive Vice President Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and President and Chief Executive Officer the Sam\x92 Club division. From September August , served Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Wal-Mart\x92 Information Systems Division. From March September , served its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer the Information Systems Division. EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the . and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. PART Item , AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. our Investor Relations Web site, www microsoft com investor, make available free charge variety information for investors. Our goal maintain the Investor Relations Web site portal through which investors can easily find navigate pertinent information about , including: \x95 our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file that material with furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94); \x95 information our business strategies, financial results, and key performance indicators; \x95 announcements investor conferences, speeches, and events which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives these events are also available; \x95 press releases quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news; \x95 corporate governance information including our articles, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes conduct and ethics, global corporate citizenship initiatives, and other governance-related policies; \x95 other news and announcements that may post from time time that investors might find useful interesting; and \x95 opportunities sign for email alerts and RSS feeds have information pushed real time. The information found our Web site not part this any other report file with, furnish , the SEC. ', 'item 1a. ': 'RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results operations, cash flows, and the trading price our common stock. The cloud-based computing model presents execution and competitive risks. are transitioning our strategy computing environment characterized cloud-based services used with smart client devices. Our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services the cloud. are devoting significant resources develop and deploy our own competing cloud-based software plus services strategies. While believe our expertise, investments infrastructure, and the breadth our cloud-based services provides with strong foundation compete, uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users generate the revenue required successful. addition software development costs, are incurring costs build and maintain infrastructure support cloud computing services. These costs may reduce the operating margins have previously achieved. Whether are successful this new business model depends our execution number areas, including: \x95 continuing innovate and bring market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; \x95 maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance our cloud-based services the growing array computing devices, including smartphones, handheld computers, netbooks, tablets, and television set top devices; \x95 continuing enhance the attractiveness our cloud platforms third-party developers; and \x95 ensuring that our cloud services meet the reliability expectations our customers and maintain the security their data. PART Item Challenges our business models may reduce our revenue operating margins. Whether our software runs the cloud device, continue face challenges from alternative means developing and licensing software. Under our license-based software model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution their products. Certain \x93open source\x94 software business models challenge our license-based software model. Open source commonly refers software whose source code subject license allowing modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject restrictions set forth the license. Some companies compete with using open source business model modifying and then distributing open source software end users nominal cost and earning revenue complementary services and products. These firms not bear the full costs research and development for the software. some cases, their products may infringe our patents. addition, advertising-based business models seek revenue delivering third party advertisements end customers who receive the software and services direct costs. Gains market acceptance open source advertising based software may adversely affect our sales, revenue, and operating margins. important element our business model has been create platform-based ecosystems which many participants can build diverse solutions. competing vertically-integrated model, which single firm controls both the software and hardware elements product, has been successful with certain consumer products such personal computers, mobile phones, and digital music players. also offer vertically-integrated hardware and software products; however, efforts compete with the vertically integrated model may increase our cost sales and reduce our operating margins. derive substantial revenue from licenses Windows operating systems personal computers. The proliferation alternative devices and form factors creates challenges from competing software platforms. uncertain what extent alternative devices will increase the number computing devices that users own, will substitute for users\x92 personal computer purchases. Alternative devices also run operating systems and applications developed our competitors. These factors could impact our revenue and margins. face intense competition. continue experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors range size from Fortune companies small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. Although believe the breadth our businesses and product portfolio competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused narrower product lines may more effective devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources compete with . addition, barriers entry our businesses generally are low and products, once developed, can distributed broadly and quickly relatively low cost. Open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts developing software that mimics the features and functionality our products, some cases violation our intellectual property rights the basis technical specifications for Microsoft technologies that make available little cost connection with our interoperability initiatives. response competition, continue develop versions our products with basic functionality that are sold lower prices than the standard versions. These competitive pressures may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives, resulting lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. may not able adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use software and other intellectual property difficult. While piracy adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the . more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. result, our revenue these markets likely will grow slower than the underlying market. Similarly, the absence harmonized patent laws makes more difficult ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail enhance revenue. Reductions the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. Third parties may claim infringe their intellectual property rights. From time time, receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. Because constant technological change the PART Item segments which compete, the extensive patent coverage existing technologies, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible the number these claims may grow. resolve these claims may enter into royalty and licensing agreements less favorable terms, stop selling redesign affected products, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. Such agreements may cause operating margins decline. have made and expect continue making significant expenditures settle claims related the use technology and intellectual property rights part our strategy manage this risk. may not able protect our source code from copying there unauthorized disclosure source code. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, critical our business. Although license portions our application and operating system source code number licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. unauthorized disclosure significant portion our source code occurs, could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. This could make easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code also could increase the security risks described the next paragraph. Security vulnerabilities could lead reduced revenue, liability claims, competitive harm. Maintaining the security computers and computer networks paramount for and our customers. Hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products and services and gain access our networks and data centers. Although this industry-wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, affects our products and services particular because hackers tend focus their efforts the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, and expect them continue . Groups hackers may also act coordinated manner launch distributed denial service attacks, other coordinated attacks, that may cause service outages other interruptions. devote significant resources address security vulnerabilities through: \x95 engineering more secure products and services; \x95 enhancing security and reliability features our products and services, and continuously evaluating and updating those security and reliability features; \x95 helping our customers make the best use our products and services protect against computer viruses and other attacks; \x95 improving the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities; \x95 investing mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed; and \x95 providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such firewalls and anti-virus software. The cost these steps could reduce our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products and services could cause significant reputational harm and lead some customers seek return products, reduce delay future purchases adoption services, use competing products. Customers may also increase their expenditures protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption new technologies. Any these actions customers could adversely affect our revenue. Actual perceived vulnerabilities may lead claims against . Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure such liability, there assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. addition, our internal information technology environment continues evolve. are often early adopters new devices and technologies. embrace new ways sharing data and communicating with partners and customers using methods such social networking. These practices can enhance efficiency and business insight, but they also present risks that our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the speed these changes. third parties gain access our networks data centers, they could obtain and exploit confidential business information and harm our competitive position. PART Item Improper disclosure personal data could result liability and harm our reputation. continue execute our strategy increasing the number and scale our cloud-based offerings, store and process increasingly large amounts personally identifiable information our customers. the same time, the continued occurrence high-profile data breaches provides evidence external environment increasingly hostile information security. This environment demands that continuously improve our design and coordination security controls across our business groups and geographies. Despite these efforts, possible our security controls over personal data, our training employees and vendors data security, and other practices follow may not prevent the improper disclosure personally identifiable information. Improper disclosure this information could harm our reputation, lead legal exposure customers, subject liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting increased costs loss revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers store and process personal data premises , increasingly, cloud-based environment host. believe consumers using our email, messaging, storage, sharing, and social networking services will increasingly want efficient, centralized methods choosing their privacy preferences and controlling their data. Perceptions that our products services not adequately protect the privacy personal information could inhibit sales our products services, and could constrain consumer and business adoption cloud-based solutions. may experience outages, data loss and disruptions our online services fail maintain adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic and complexity our products and services demand more computing power. have spent and expect continue spend substantial amounts purchase lease data centers and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure handle increased traffic our Web sites and our data centers, and introduce new products and services and support existing services such Bing, Exchange Online, Office , SharePoint Online, Xbox LIVE, Windows Azure, Windows Live, and Microsoft Office Web Apps. also are growing our business providing platform and back-end hosting for services provided third-party businesses their end customers. Maintaining and expanding this infrastructure expensive and complex. Inefficiencies operational failures, including temporary permanent loss customer data, could diminish the quality our products, services, and user experience resulting contractual liability, claims customers and other third parties, damage our reputation and loss current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each which may harm our operating results and financial condition. are subject government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how design and market our products. leading global software maker, receive close scrutiny from government agencies under . and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights action for competitors consumers assert claims anti-competitive conduct. For example, have been involved the following actions. Lawsuits brought the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia two separate actions were resolved through Consent Decree that took effect and Final Judgment entered . These proceedings imposed various constraints our Windows operating system businesses. These constraints included limits certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers limit the visibility certain Windows features new PCs. Although the Consent Decree and Final Judgment expired May , expect that federal and state antitrust authorities will continue closely scrutinize our business. The European Commission closely scrutinizes the design high-volume Microsoft products and the terms which make certain technologies used these products, such file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available other companies. , the Commission ordered create new versions Windows that not include certain multimedia technologies and provide our competitors with specifications for how implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols their own products. , the Commission accepted set commitments offered Microsoft address the Commission\x92 concerns relating competition Web browsing software. The Commission\x92 impact product design may limit our ability innovate Windows other products the future, diminish the developer appeal the Windows platform, and increase our product development costs. The availability licenses related protocols and file formats may enable competitors develop software products that better mimic the functionality our own products which could result decreased sales our products. PART Item Government regulatory actions and court decisions such these may hinder our ability provide the benefits our software consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness our products and the revenue that come from them. New actions could initiated any time, either these other governments private claimants, including with respect new versions Windows other Microsoft products. The outcome such actions, steps taken avoid them, could adversely affect variety ways, including: \x95 may have choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies avoid fines designing and developing alternative versions those products comply with government rulings, which may entail delay product release and removing functionality that customers want which developers rely. \x95 may required make available licenses our proprietary technologies terms that not reflect their fair market value not protect our associated intellectual property. \x95 The rulings described above may used precedent other competition law proceedings. Our software and services online offerings are subject government regulation the Internet domestically and internationally many areas, including user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. The application these laws and regulations our business often unclear and sometimes may conflict. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs require changes business practices that result reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result penalties being imposed orders that stop the alleged noncompliant activity. Our business depends our ability attract and retain talented employees. Our business based successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders our industry extremely competitive. are limited our ability recruit internationally restrictive domestic immigration laws. are less successful our recruiting efforts, are unable retain key employees, our ability develop and deliver successful products and services may adversely affected. Effective succession planning also important our long-term success. Failure ensure effective transfer knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Delays product development schedules may adversely affect our revenue. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Our increasing focus cloud-based software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. Significant delays new product service releases significant problems creating new products services could adversely affect our revenue. make significant investments new products and services that may not profitable. Our growth depends our ability innovate offering new, and adding value our existing, software and service offerings. will continue make significant investments research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, the Microsoft Office system, Bing, Windows Phone, Windows Server, Windows Live, the Windows Azure Services platform and other cloud-based services offerings, and the Xbox entertainment platform. Investments new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. Our degree success with Windows Phone, for example, will impact our ability grow our share the smartphone operating system market. will also important factor supporting our strategy delivering value end users seamlessly over , phone, and device classes. customers not perceive our latest offerings providing significant new functionality other value, they may reduce their purchases new software products upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for number years, all. Moreover, new products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not high the margins have experienced historically. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Unfavorable changes economic conditions, including inflation, recession, other changes economic conditions, may result lower information technology spending and adversely affect our revenue. demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, consumer PART Item business spending for those products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. Our product distribution system also relies extensive partner network. The impact economic conditions our partners, such the bankruptcy major distributor, could result sales channel disruption. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability our customers pay for products and services they have purchased. result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs accounts receivable may increase. maintain investment portfolio various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are subject general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may exacerbated unusual events that have affected global financial markets. significant part our investment portfolio consists . government securities. global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods decline, the . federal government budget process results default downgrade its debt, our investment portfolio may adversely impacted and could determine that more our investments have experienced other-than-temporary decline fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely impact our financial results. have claims and lawsuits against that may result adverse outcomes. are subject variety claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes some all these claims may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability conduct our business. Although management currently believes resolving all these matters, individually the aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial statements, the litigation and other claims are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. material adverse impact our financial statements also could occur for the period which the effect unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. may have additional tax liabilities. are subject income taxes the . and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. regularly are under audit tax authorities. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results audit litigation could have material effect our financial statements the period periods for which that determination made. earn significant amount our operating income from outside the ., and any repatriation funds currently held foreign jurisdictions may result higher effective tax rates for the company. addition, there have been proposals change . tax laws that would significantly impact how . multinational corporations are taxed foreign earnings. Although cannot predict whether what form this proposed legislation may pass, enacted could have material adverse impact our tax expense and cash flow. Our vertically-integrated hardware and software products may experience quality supply problems. Our hardware products such the Xbox console are highly complex and can have defects design, manufacture, associated software. could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm fail detect effectively address such issues through design, testing, warranty repairs. obtain some components our hardware devices from sole suppliers. component delivery from sole-source supplier delayed becomes unavailable industry shortages occur, may unable obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting reduced sales. Either component shortages excess obsolete inventory may increase our cost revenue. Xbox consoles are assembled Asia; disruptions the supply chain may result console shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. These same risks would apply any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products may offer. our goodwill amortizable intangible assets become impaired may required record significant charge earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted the United States (\x93 . GAAP\x94), review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. Goodwill tested for impairment least annually. Factors that may considered change circumstances, indicating that the carrying value our goodwill amortizable intangible assets may not recoverable, include decline stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates our industry. may required record significant charge our financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill amortizable intangible assets determined, negatively impacting our results operations. PART Item , , operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure make our pricing structure uniform might require that reduce the sales price our software the . and other countries. Operations outside the . may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments. Emerging markets are significant focus our international growth strategy. The developing nature these markets presents number risks. Deterioration social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations may also adversely affect our operations financial results. Although hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenue. Catastrophic events geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. disruption failure our systems operations the event major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales, providing services, performing other mission-critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could harm our ability conduct normal business operations. Our move toward providing our customers with more services and solutions the cloud puts premium the resilience our systems and strength our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact prolonged outages our operating results. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers, and may result supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either which may adversely affect our revenue. The long-term effects climate change the global economy general the information technology industry particular are unclear. Environmental regulations changes the supply, demand available sources energy may affect the availability cost goods and services, including natural resources, necessary run our business. Changes weather where operate may increase the costs powering and cooling computer hardware use develop software and provide cloud-based services. New regulations may require find alternative compliant and cost-effective methods distributing our products and services. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that don\x92 realize satisfactory return our investment, that experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, diversion management\x92 attention from our other businesses. may take longer than expected realize the full benefits, such increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, market share, those benefits may ultimately smaller than anticipated, may not realized. These events could harm our operating results financial condition. ', 'item 1b. ': 'UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS have received written comments regarding our periodic current reports from the staff the SEC that were issued days more preceding the end our fiscal year that remain unresolved. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office space located King County, Washington: million square feet owned space situated approximately acres land own our corporate campus Redmond, Washington and approximately five million square feet space lease. own approximately three million additional square feet office and data center space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately four million square feet office and data center space. PART , Item , , occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately three million square feet that owned and approximately nine million square feet that leased. International facilities that own include our development center Hyderabad, India; our European operations center Dublin, Ireland; research and development campus Beijing, China; and facilities Reading, . The largest leased office spaces include the following locations: Beijing and Shanghai, China; Tokyo, Japan; Unterschleissheim, Germany; Paris, France; Dublin, Ireland; Bangalore, India; Reading, ; Vedbaek, Denmark; and Mississauga, Canada. addition the above locations, have disk duplication and digital distribution facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific operations center and regional headquarters, and various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described the \x93Research and Development\x94 section Item this Form - . Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional spaces are available accommodate expansion needs. have development agreement with the City Redmond under which may currently develop approximately million square feet additional facilities our corporate campus Redmond, Washington. addition, own acres undeveloped land Issaquah, Washington, that can accommodate approximately one million square feet office space. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for information regarding legal proceedings which are involved. PART ', 'item 4. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET AND STOCKHOLDERS Our common stock traded the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. July , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock sales prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended September December March June Fiscal Year Fiscal Year High $ $ $ $ $ Low $ $ $ $ $ Fiscal Year High $ $ $ $ $ Low $ $ $ $ $ PART Item , , DIVIDENDS AND SHARE REPURCHASES See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for information regarding dividends and share repurchases quarter. Following are our monthly stock repurchases for the fourth quarter fiscal year : Period Total Number Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Plans Programs Approximate Dollar Value Shares that May Yet Purchased under the Plans Programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , $ $ , May , \x96 May , $ $ , June , \x96 June , , , $ , , $ , , , , , The repurchases were made using cash resources and occurred the open market and pursuant trading plan under Rule 10b5- the Securities Exchange Act . ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) $ , Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes charge $ billion ( \x80 million) related the fine imposed the European Commission February . ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis (\x93 & \x94) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying Notes Financial Statements. OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK Microsoft technology leader focused helping people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. create technology that transforms the way people work, play and communicate across wide range computing devices. generate revenue developing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products and services, designing and selling hardware, and delivering relevant online advertising global customer audience. Our most significant expenses are related compensating employees, designing, manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and services, and income taxes. PART Item Industry Trends Our industry dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes both technologies and business models. Each industry shift opportunity conceive new products, new technologies, new ideas which can further transform the industry and our business. Microsoft, push the boundaries what possible through broad set research and technology innovations that seek anticipate the changing demands customers, industry trends, and competitive forces. Key Opportunities and Investments Based our assessment key technology trends and our broad focus long-term research and development new products and services, see significant opportunities drive future growth. Smart connected devices The price per unit processing, storage, and networks continues decline while the same time devices increase capability. This ongoing trend increasing the capabilities PCs, mobile, and other devices powered rich software platforms and applications. the same time, the information and services people use increasingly span multiple devices. User experiences will transformed the adoption cloud computing when brought together with the richness smart, connected devices. Microsoft delivering experiences that seamlessly connect PCs and mobile and other devices through the cloud. are devoting significant resources consumer cloud offerings like Bing, Windows Live, and Xbox LIVE. Our software and hardware platform investments can seen products like Kinect, Windows, Windows Azure, Windows Phone, Windows Server, and Xbox. Cloud computing transforming the data center and information technology Cloud-based solutions provide customers with software, services and content over the Internet way shared computing resources located centralized data centers. Computing undergoing long-term shift from client server the cloud, shift similar importance and impact the transition from mainframe client server. The shift the cloud driven three important economies scale: larger data centers can deploy computational resources significantly lower cost than smaller ones; larger data centers include diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns which improve the utilization computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy lowers application maintenance labor costs for large public clouds. result the improved economics, the cloud offers unique levels elasticity and agility that will enable new solutions and applications. For businesses all sizes, the cloud creates the opportunity focus more innovation while leaving non-differentiating activities reliable and cost-effective providers. For most businesses, the first step achieving cloud economics the adoption virtualization their data center. are devoting significant resources developing cloud infrastructure, platforms, and applications including offerings such Microsoft Dynamics Online, Microsoft SQL Azure, Office , Windows Azure, Windows Intune, and Windows Server. Entertainment The evolution hardware, software, services, and the cloud are enhancing the delivery and quality unified entertainment experiences across many devices. These rich media experiences include games, movies, music, television, and social interactions with family, friends, and colleagues. Microsoft, our approach simplify and increase the accessibility these entertainment experiences broaden market penetration our software and services. invest significant resources partnerships, content, Windows Phone, Xbox, and Xbox LIVE. Search Over the last two decades, web content and social connections have increased dramatically people spend more time online, while discoverability and accessibility has been transforming from direct navigation and document links. There significant opportunity deliver differentiated products that helps users make better decisions and PART Item complete tasks more simply when using , mobile, and other devices. Our approach use machine learning try understand user intent, and differentiate our product focusing the integration visual, social, and other elements which simplifies people\x92 interaction with the Internet. invest significant resources Bing, SharePoint, Windows, and Windows Phone. Communications and productivity Personal and business productivity has been transformed the ubiquity computing and software tools. Over the last decade, Microsoft redefined software productivity beyond the rich Office client the . Productivity scenarios now encompass unified communications, business intelligence, collaboration, content management, and relationship management, which are increasingly powered server-side applications. These server applications can hosted the customer, partner, Microsoft the cloud. There are significant opportunities provide productivity and communication scenarios across PCs, mobile devices, and other devices that connect services. invest significant resources Dynamics, Exchange, Lync, Office, Office , SharePoint, and Windows Live. Economic Conditions, Challenges and Risks discussed above, our industry dynamic and highly competitive. must anticipate changes technology and business models. Our model for growth based our ability initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, enter new markets, both terms geographies and product areas, and drive broad adoption the products and services develop and market. Microsoft, prioritize our investments among the highest long-term growth opportunities. These investments require significant resources and are multi-year nature. The products and services bring market can built internally, brought market part partnership alliance, through acquisition. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. rely hiring from mix university and industry talent worldwide. Microsoft competes for talented individuals worldwide offering broad customer reach, scale resources, and competitive compensation. Demand for our software, services, and hardware has strong correlation global macroeconomic factors. The current macroeconomic factors remain dynamic. See discussion these factors and other risks under Risk Factors (Part , Item . this Form - ). Seasonality Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest the second quarter our fiscal year due corporate calendar year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers. Our Entertainment and Devices Division particularly seasonal its products are aimed the consumer market and are highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Typically, the Entertainment and Devices Division has generated approximately % its yearly segment revenue our second fiscal quarter. addition, quarterly revenue may impacted the deferral revenue. See the discussions below regarding sales earlier versions the Microsoft Office system with guarantee upgraded the newest version the Microsoft Office system minimal cost (the \x93Office Deferral\x94) and sales Windows Vista with guarantee upgraded Windows minimal cost and Windows retailers before general availability (the \x93Windows Deferral\x94). PART Item RESULTS OPERATIONS Summary Results for Fiscal Years , , and ( millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ % % Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue increased primarily due strong sales the Xbox entertainment platform, the Microsoft Office system, and Server and Tools products, offset part lower Windows revenue. Revenue also increased due the $ million Office Deferral fiscal year and the subsequent recognition the Office Deferral during fiscal year . Changes foreign currency exchange rates had insignificant impact revenue. Operating income increased reflecting the change revenue, offset part higher operating expenses. Key changes operating expenses were: \x95 Cost revenue increased $ billion %, due higher costs associated with our online offerings, including traffic acquisition costs, and increased volumes Xbox consoles and Kinect sensors sold. \x95 Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased advertising and marketing the Xbox platform, Windows Phone, and Windows and Windows Live, higher headcount-related expenses and increased fees paid third party enterprise software advisors. \x95 Research and development expenses increased $ million %, due mainly higher headcount-related expenses. \x95 General and administrative expenses increased $ million %, due mainly higher headcount-related expenses and new Puerto Rican excise taxes, partially offset prior year transition expenses associated with the inception the Yahoo! Commercial Agreement. Diluted earnings per share increased reflecting higher revenue, repurchases common stock, and lower income tax expense, offset part higher operating expenses. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue increased mainly due strong sales Windows , which was released during fiscal year , and market improvement. Operating income increased reflecting the change revenue, offset part higher operating expenses. \x95 Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased advertising and marketing Windows and Bing and increased sales force expenses related Windows . \x95 General and administrative expenses increased $ million % due mainly increased legal charges and transition expenses associated with the inception the Yahoo! Commercial Agreement, offset part reduction headcount-related expenses. \x95 Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased online costs and charges resulting from the discontinuation the KIN phone, offset part decreased Xbox console costs and reductions other costs due resource management efforts. \x95 Research and development expenses decreased $ million %, primarily reflecting decrease third-party development and programming costs and increased capitalization certain software development costs. PART Item Diluted earnings per share increased reflecting increased net income and the repurchase million shares during fiscal year . SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) The revenue and operating income (loss) amounts this section are presented basis consistent with accounting principles generally accepted the . (\x93 . GAAP\x94) and include certain reconciling items attributable each the segments. Segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) presented basis consistent with our current internal management reporting. Certain corporate-level activity has been excluded from segment operating results and analyzed separately. have recast certain prior period amounts within this & conform the way internally managed and monitored segment performance during the current fiscal year, including moving Microsoft\x92 hardware business from Entertainment and Devices Division Windows & Windows Live Division, Windows Embedded from Entertainment and Devices Division Server and Tools, and Office for Mac from Entertainment and Devices Division Microsoft Business Division, well implementing intersegment cost allocations between all segments related the collaborative investment mobile platform development. Windows & Windows Live Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Operating income $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Windows & Windows Live Division (\x93Windows Division\x94) develops and markets operating systems, related software and online services, and hardware products. This collection software, hardware, and services designed simplify everyday tasks through efficient browsing capabilities and seamless operations across the user\x92 hardware and software. Windows Division offerings consist multiple editions the Windows operating system, software and services through Windows Live, and Microsoft hardware products. Windows Division revenue largely correlated the market worldwide, approximately % total Windows Division revenue comes from Windows operating system software purchased original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94) which they pre-install equipment they sell. The remaining approximately % Windows Division revenue (\x93other revenue\x94) generated commercial and retail sales Windows and hardware products and online advertising from Windows Live. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Windows Division revenue reflected relative performance market segments. estimate that sales PCs businesses grew approximately % this year and sales PCs consumers declined approximately %. The decline consumer sales included approximately % decline the sales netbooks. Taken together, the total market increased estimated % %. Revenue was negatively impacted the effect higher growth emerging markets, where average selling prices are lower, relative developed markets, and lower recognition previously deferred Windows revenue. Considering the impact Windows launch the prior year, including $ million revenue recognized related the Windows Deferral, estimate that Windows Division revenue was line with the market. Windows Division operating income decreased result decreased revenue and higher sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million % reflecting increased advertising Windows and Windows Live. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Windows Division revenue increased primarily result strong sales Windows and market improvement. estimate total shipments from all sources grew approximately % %. OEM revenue increased $ billion %, while OEM license units increased %. The OEM revenue increase was driven market growth, higher Windows attach rates across consumer and business segments, the restoration normal OEM inventory levels, and the mix versions Windows licensed, offset part market changes, including stronger growth emerging markets versus developed markets and consumer PCs versus business PCs. Fiscal year OEM revenue reflects $ million Windows Deferral. This amount was subsequently recognized fiscal year . Other revenue increased $ million % driven primarily Windows retail sales. Windows Division operating income increased result increased revenue, offset part higher operating expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million % reflecting increased advertising and marketing Windows . Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven traffic acquisition costs and royalties. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Server and Tools develops and markets technology and related services that enable information technology professionals and their systems more productive and efficient. Server and Tools product and service offerings include Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Azure, Visual Studio, System Center products, Windows Embedded device platforms, and Enterprise Services. Enterprise Services comprise Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services. also offer developer tools, training and certification. Approximately % Server and Tools revenue comes primarily from multi-year volume licensing agreements, approximately % purchased through transactional volume licensing programs, retail packaged product and licenses sold OEMs, and the remainder comes from Enterprise Services. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Server and Tools revenue increased reflecting growth both product sales and Enterprise Services. Product revenue increased $ billion %, driven primarily growth Windows Server, SQL Server, Enterprise CAL Suites, and Windows Embedded, reflecting continued adoption Windows platform applications. Enterprise Services revenue grew $ million %, due growth both Premier product support and consulting services. Server and Tools operating income increased due revenue growth, offset part higher operating expenses. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily reflecting $ million increase expenses from providing Enterprise Services. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million % reflecting increased fees paid third party enterprise software advisors and increased corporate marketing activities. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Server and Tools revenue increased mainly reflecting growth product revenue. Product revenue increased $ million %, driven primarily growth Windows Server, SQL Server and Enterprise CAL Suites revenue, reflecting increased revenue from annuity volume licensing agreements and continued adoption Windows platform applications, offset part decline developer tools revenue. Enterprise Services revenue was relatively flat, with growth Premier product support services nearly offset decreased consulting services. PART Item Server and Tools operating income increased due mainly revenue growth, offset part increased cost revenue. Cost revenue increased $ million %, reflecting increased headcount-related expenses and hosting costs. Online Services Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( )% ( )% Online Services Division (\x93OSD\x94) develops and markets information and content designed help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, and that help advertisers connect with audiences. OSD offerings include Bing, MSN, adCenter, and advertiser tools. Bing and MSN generate revenue through the sale search and display advertising. Search and display advertising generally accounts for nearly all OSD\x92 annual revenue. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year OSD revenue increased primarily result growth online advertising revenue. Online advertising revenue grew $ million % $ billion, reflecting continued growth search and display advertising revenue, offset part decreased third party advertising revenue. Search revenue grew due increased volumes reflecting general market growth, relative share gains the ., and our Yahoo! alliance, offset part decreased revenue per search primarily related challenges associated with optimizing the adCenter platform for the new mix and volume traffic from the combined Yahoo! and Bing properties. June , , according third-party sources, Bing organic . market share grew over % approximately %, while Bing-powered . market share, including Yahoo! properties, was approximately %. OSD operating loss increased due higher operating expenses, offset part increased revenue. Cost revenue grew $ million driven costs associated with the Yahoo! search agreement and increased traffic acquisition costs. General and administrative expenses decreased $ million % due mainly transition expenses the prior year associated with the inception the Yahoo! Commercial Agreement. Research and development increased $ million % due increased headcount-related costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year OSD revenue increased reflecting increased online advertising revenue, offset part decreased Access (dial- internet) revenue. Online advertising revenue increased $ million % $ billion, reflecting higher search and display advertising revenue, offset part decreased advertiser and publisher tools revenue. Access revenue decreased $ million %, reflecting continued migration subscribers broadband other competitively-priced service providers. OSD operating loss increased due increased operating expenses, offset part increased revenue. Cost revenue increased $ million, primarily driven higher online traffic acquisition costs and Yahoo! reimbursement and implementation costs. General and administrative expenses increased $ million. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million % due mainly increased marketing Bing, offset part decreased headcount-related expenses. Microsoft Business Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % PART Item Microsoft Business Division (\x93MBD\x94) develops and markets software and services designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. MBD offerings include the Microsoft Office system (comprising mainly Office, SharePoint, Exchange and Lync), which generates over % MBD revenue, and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. evaluate MBD results based upon the nature the end user two primary parts: business revenue, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue; and consumer revenue, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year MBD revenue increased primarily reflecting sales the Microsoft Office system, the $ million Office Deferral during fiscal year , and the subsequent recognition the Office Deferral during fiscal year . Business revenue increased $ billion %, reflecting licensing the Microsoft Office system transactional business customers, growth multi-year volume licensing revenue, and % increase Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Consumer revenue increased $ billion %, approximately half which was attributable the launch Office and half which was attributable the Office Deferral during fiscal year and subsequent recognition the Office Deferral during fiscal year . Excluding the impact associated with the Office Deferral, consumer revenue increased $ million % due sales the Microsoft Office system. MBD operating income increased due mainly revenue growth, offset part higher operating expenses. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven higher online costs and services. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily driven increase corporate and cross-platform marketing activities. Research and development costs increased $ million %, primarily result capitalization certain Microsoft Office system software development costs the prior year. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year MBD revenue decreased primarily result the net deferral $ million revenue related the Office Deferral. Consumer revenue decreased $ million %, primarily due the Office Deferral, offset part growth the market and sales the Microsoft Office system, which was launched during the fourth quarter fiscal year . Business revenue decreased $ million, primarily reflecting decline licensing the Microsoft Office system transactional business customers, offset part growth multi-year volume licensing agreement revenue and licensing the Microsoft Office system transactional business customers. Microsoft Dynamics revenue was flat. MBD operating income increased due mainly decreased operating expenses, offset part decreased revenue. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $ million %, primarily driven decrease corporate marketing activities. Research and development expenses decreased $ million %, primarily result capitalization certain Microsoft Office system software development costs and lower headcount-related expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $ million % primarily due expenses the prior year associated with the acquisition Fast Search & Transfer ASA (\x93FAST\x94) and lower headcount-related expenses. These decreases were offset part $ million % increase cost revenue, primarily driven increased traffic acquisition costs and increased costs providing services. Entertainment and Devices Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Operating income $ , $ $ % % PART Item Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) develops and markets products and services designed entertain and connect people. EDD offerings include the Xbox entertainment platform (which includes the Xbox gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox , Xbox video games, Xbox LIVE, and Xbox accessories), Mediaroom (our Internet protocol television software), and Windows Phone. November , released Kinect for Xbox and the latest version Windows Phone. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year EDD revenue increased primarily reflecting higher Xbox platform revenue. Xbox platform revenue grew $ billion %, led increased volumes Xbox consoles, sales Kinect sensors, and higher Xbox LIVE revenue. shipped million Xbox consoles during fiscal year , compared with million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . EDD operating income increased primarily reflecting revenue growth, offset part higher cost revenue. Cost revenue increased $ billion % primarily reflecting higher volumes Xbox consoles and Kinect sensors sold, and increased royalty costs resulting from increased sales Xbox LIVE digital content. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting higher headcount-related costs. Sales and marketing expenses grew $ million % primarily reflecting increased Xbox platform marketing activities. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year EDD revenue decreased reflecting decreased revenue from Xbox platform and games. Xbox platform and game revenue decreased $ million, primarily reflecting reduction Xbox consoles sold and revenue per console, offset part increased Xbox LIVE revenue. shipped million Xbox consoles during fiscal year , compared with million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . Non-gaming revenue decreased $ million % primarily reflecting decreased Zune and Windows Phone revenue. EDD operating income increased due reduced operating expenses. Cost revenue decreased $ million %, primarily due lower Xbox console costs, offset part increased royalty costs resulting from increased Xbox LIVE digital marketplace third-party content sales and charges resulting from the discontinuation the KIN phone. Sales and marketing costs decreased $ million %, primarily due decreased Xbox platform marketing activities. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased headcount-related expenses, offset part decreased third-party development and programming costs. Corporate-Level Activity ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Corporate-level activity $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( )% % Certain corporate-level activity not allocated our segments, including costs : broad-based sales and marketing; product support services; human resources; legal; finance; information technology; corporate development and procurement activities; research and development; and legal settlements and contingencies. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate-level expenses increased due mainly new Puerto Rican excise taxes, certain revenue related sales and marketing expenses, and increased headcount-related expenses. These increases were offset part lower legal charges, which were $ million fiscal year compared $ million fiscal year . PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate-level expenses decreased due mainly employee severance charges $ million incurred the prior year, decreased partner payments, and reductions other costs due resource management efforts. These decreases expenses were offset part increase legal charges and costs associated with broad-based sales and marketing activities. Legal charges were approximately $ million compared $ million the prior year. OPERATING EXPENSES Cost Revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Cost revenue $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % 2ppt ( )ppt Cost revenue includes: manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred include software PCs sold OEMs, drive traffic our Web sites, and acquire online advertising space (\x93traffic acquisition costs\x94); costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, including royalties; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery consulting services; and the amortization capitalized research and development costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cost revenue increased primarily due increased volumes Xbox consoles and Kinect sensors sold, higher costs associated with our online offerings, including traffic acquisition costs, and higher expenses from providing Enterprise Services, well royalty costs relating Xbox LIVE digital content sold. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cost revenue increased reflecting higher online costs, mainly Yahoo! reimbursement and implementation costs and traffic acquisition costs, well increased royalty costs resulting from increased Xbox LIVE digital marketplace third-party content sales and charges resulting from the discontinuation the KIN phone. For the current fiscal year, these costs were offset part lower Xbox console costs and reductions other costs due resource management efforts. Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Research and development $ , $ , $ , % ( )% percent revenue % % % ( )ppt ( )ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Research and development expenses increased primarily due % increase headcount-related expenses and the capitalization certain software development costs the prior year. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Research and development expenses decreased, primarily reflecting decreased third-party development and programming costs and the capitalization certain Microsoft Office system software development costs. These decreases were offset part the capitalization certain software and development costs related Windows product development the prior year. Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Sales and marketing $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % ( )ppt ( )ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and the costs advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Sales and marketing expenses increased primarily result increased advertising and marketing the Xbox platform, Windows Phone, and Windows and Windows Live, % increase headcount-related expenses, and increased fees paid third party enterprise software advisors. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Sales and marketing expenses increased, primarily reflecting increased advertising and marketing Windows and Bing and increased sales force expenses related Windows . General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus General and administrative $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % ( )ppt 0ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year General and administrative expenses increased primarily due % increase headcount-related expenses and new Puerto Rican excise taxes, partially offset prior year transition expenses associated with the inception the Yahoo! Commercial Agreement. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year General and administrative expenses increased due increased legal charges, discussed above within Corporate-Level Activity, and transition expenses associated with the inception the Yahoo! Commercial Agreement. These increases were offset part % reduction headcount-related expenses and lower severance costs. During fiscal years and , general and administrative expenses included employee severance expense $ million and $ million, respectively, associated with resource management program that was announced January and completed fiscal year . PART Item OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) AND INCOME TAXES Other Income (Expense) The components other income (expense) were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Dividends and interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains (losses) investments ( ) Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Net gains (losses) foreign currency remeasurements ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Total $ $ $ ( ) use derivative instruments manage risks related foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges are recognized other income (expense). These are generally offset unrealized gains and losses the underlying securities the investment portfolio and are recorded component other comprehensive income. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income increased due higher average portfolio investment balances, offset part lower yields our fixed-income investments. Interest expense increased due our increased issuance debt. Net recognized gains investments increased due primarily higher gains sales equity securities, offset part fewer gains sales fixed-income securities. Derivative losses decreased due primarily higher gains commodity derivatives offset part higher losses currency contracts used hedge foreign currency revenue. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income increased primarily due higher average portfolio investment balances, offset part lower yields our fixed-income investments. Interest expense increased due our issuance long term debt May . Net recognized gains investments increased primarily due lower other-than-temporary impairments, offset part lower gains sales investments the current period. Other-than-temporary impairments were $ million during fiscal year , compared with $ million during fiscal year and decreased primarily due improvements market conditions. Net losses derivatives decreased due gains equity and interest rate derivatives compared losses the prior period and lower losses commodity and foreign currency contracts the current period. Net gains from foreign currency remeasurements were insignificant fiscal year compared net losses $ million the prior year, which had resulted from the strengthening the . dollar the prior year. For fiscal year , other includes gain the divestiture Razorfish. Income Taxes Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Our effective tax rates for fiscal years and were approximately % and %, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the . federal statutory rate and our prior year effective rate primarily due higher mix earnings taxed lower rates foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico, which are subject PART Item lower income tax rates. fiscal years and , our . income before income taxes was $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and comprised % and %, respectively, our income before income taxes. fiscal years and , the foreign income before income taxes was $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and comprised % and %, respectively, our income before income taxes. fiscal years and , the reduction the . federal statutory rate result foreign earnings taxed lower rates was % and %, respectively. addition, our effective tax rate was lower than the prior year due partial settlement with the . the third quarter fiscal year relating the audit tax years . This partial settlement reduced our income tax expense for fiscal year $ million. Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities were $ billion and $ billion June , and , respectively, and are included other long-term liabilities. have not provided deferred . income taxes foreign withholding taxes temporary differences approximately $ billion resulting from earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries because they are permanently reinvested outside the . The unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences was approximately $ billion June , . While settled portion the . audit for tax years during the third quarter fiscal year , remain under audit for these years. During the fourth quarter fiscal year , the . completed its examination and issued Revenue Agent\x92 Report (\x93RAR\x94) for the remaining unresolved items. not agree with the adjustments the RAR, and have filed protest initiate the administrative appeals process. The proposed adjustments are primarily related transfer pricing and could have significant impact our financial statements not resolved favorably; however, believe our existing reserves are adequate. not believe reasonably possible that the total amount unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase decrease within the next months, not believe the appeals process will concluded within the next months. also continue subject examination the . for tax years . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Our effective tax rates fiscal years and were approximately % and %, respectively. fiscal years and , the reduction the . federal statutory rate result foreign earnings taxed lower rates was % and %, respectively, reflecting the mix . and international income before income taxes and the impact changes unrecognized tax benefits related international income. fiscal years and , foreign income before income taxes was $ billion and $ billion, respectively. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $ billion June , , compared with $ billion June , . Equity and other investments were $ billion June , , compared with $ billion June , . Our short-term investments are primarily facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. They consist predominantly highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly . dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities order diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity our fixed-income portfolio are managed achieve economic returns that correlate certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related these investments insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. While own certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed fixed-income securities, our portfolio June , does not contain direct exposure subprime mortgages structured vehicles that derive their value from subprime collateral. The majority our mortgage-backed securities are collateralized prime residential mortgages and carry % principal and interest guarantee, primarily from Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and Government National Mortgage Association. PART Item the cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments June , , approximately $ billion was held our foreign subsidiaries and were subject material repatriation tax effects. The amount cash and investments held foreign subsidiaries subject other restrictions the free flow funds (primarily currency and other local regulatory) was approximately $ million. June , , approximately % the short-term investments held our foreign subsidiaries were invested . government and agency securities, approximately % were invested corporate notes and bonds . companies, and % were invested . mortgage-backed securities, all which are denominated . dollars. Securities lending lend certain fixed-income and equity securities increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Cash and security interests are received collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash received recorded asset with corresponding liability. Our securities lending payable balance was $ billion June , . Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the fiscal year were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Intra-year variances the amount securities loaned are mainly due fluctuations the demand for the securities. Valuation general, and where applicable, use quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities determine the fair value our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments, such exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, and . treasuries. quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities are not available determine fair value, then use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly indirectly. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments such corporate notes and bonds, foreign government bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and agency securities. Level investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured using unobservable inputs are immaterial portion our portfolio. majority our investments are priced pricing vendors and are generally Level Level investments these vendors either provide quoted market price active market use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing used mainly when quoted price not available, the investment not priced our pricing vendors, when broker price more reflective fair values the market which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally labeled Level investments because the broker prices these investments based similar assets without applying significant adjustments. addition, all our broker-priced investments have sufficient level trading volume demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review key model inputs, analysis period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flows from operations increased $ billion during the current fiscal year $ billion due mainly increased revenue and cash collections from customers. Cash used financing decreased $ billion $ billion due mainly $ billion increase proceeds from issuance debt, net repayments, offset part $ million increase cash paid for dividends. Cash used investing increased $ billion $ billion due $ billion increase purchases investments, offset part $ billion increase cash from securities lending. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flow from operations increased $ billion, primarily due payment $ billion the Internal Revenue Service the prior year result our settlement the - audit examination along with increased cash received from customers the current year. Cash used for financing increased $ billion, primarily due $ PART Item billion decrease net cash proceeds from issuance and repayments short-term and long-term debt. Financing activities also included $ billion increase cash used for common stock repurchases, which was offset part $ billion increase cash received from common stock issued. Cash used for investing decreased $ billion due $ billion decrease cash used for combined investment purchases, sales, and maturities along with $ billion decrease additions property and equipment. Debt Short-term debt During fiscal year , repaid $ billion commercial paper, leaving zero outstanding. November , , our $ billion -day credit facility expired. This facility served back- for our commercial paper program. amounts were drawn against the credit facility during any the periods presented. Long-term debt issued debt during the periods presented take advantage favorable pricing and liquidity the debt markets, reflecting our superior credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds these issuances were used partially fund discretionary business acquisitions and share repurchases. June , , the total carrying value and estimated fair value our long-term debt, including convertible debt, were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. This compared carrying value and estimated fair value $ billion and $ billion, respectively, June , . The estimated fair value based quoted prices for our publicly-traded debt June , and , applicable. The components long-term debt, the associated interest rates, and the semi-annual interest record and payment dates were follows June , : Due Date Face Value Stated Interest Rate Effective Interest Rate Interest Record Date Interest Pay Date Interest Record Date Interest Pay Date ( millions) Notes September , $ , % % March March September September June , , % % May June November December September , , % % March March September September February , % % February February August August June , , % % May June November December October , , % % March April September October February , % % February February August August June , % % May June November December October , , % % March April September October February , , % % February February August August Total , Convertible Debt June , , % % Total unamortized discount ( ) Total $ , Notes The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. PART Item Convertible Debt June , issued $ billion zero coupon convertible unsecured debt due June , private placement offering. Proceeds from the offering were $ billion, net fees and expenses, which were capitalized. Each $ , principal amount notes convertible into shares Microsoft common stock conversion price $ per share. June , , the net carrying amount our convertible debt was $ billion and the unamortized discount was $ million. Prior March , , the notes will convertible, only certain circumstances, into cash and, applicable, cash, shares Microsoft\x92 common stock, combination thereof, our election. after March , , the notes will convertible any time. Upon conversion, will pay cash the aggregate principal amount the notes and pay deliver cash, shares our common stock, combination cash and shares our common stock, our election. Because the convertible debt may wholly partially settled cash, are required separately account for the liability and equity components the notes manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized subsequent periods. The net proceeds $ billion were allocated between debt for $ billion and stockholders\x92 equity for $ million with the portion stockholders\x92 equity representing the fair value the option convert the debt. connection with the issuance the notes, entered into capped call transactions with certain option counterparties who are initial purchasers the notes their affiliates. The capped call transactions are expected reduce potential dilution earnings per share upon conversion the notes. Under the capped call transactions, purchased from the option counterparties capped call options that the aggregate relate the total number shares our common stock underlying the notes, with strike price equal the conversion price the notes and with cap price equal $ . The purchased capped calls were valued $ million and recorded stockholders\x92 equity. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue June , comprised mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid for either inception the agreement annually the beginning each billing coverage period and accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Unearned revenue June , also included payments for: post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future; Xbox LIVE subscriptions and prepaid points; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; OEM minimum commitments; unspecified upgrades enhancements Windows Phone and Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis for Windows ; and other offerings for which have been paid advance and earn the revenue when provide the service software, otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected future recognition unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Three Months Ending, September , $ , December , , March , , June , , Thereafter , Total $ , PART Item Share Repurchases September , , announced the completion the two repurchase programs approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year (the \x93 Programs\x94) buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. September , , also announced that our Board Directors approved new share repurchase program authorizing $ billion share repurchases with expiration date September , (the \x93 Program\x94). June , , approximately $ billion remained the $ billion approved repurchase amount. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without notice. During the periods reported, repurchased with cash resources: million shares for $ billion during fiscal year ; million shares for $ billion during fiscal year ; and million shares for $ billion during fiscal year . All shares repurchased fiscal years and were repurchased under the Program. the shares repurchased fiscal year , million shares were repurchased for $ billion under the Programs, while the remainder was repurchased under the Program. Dividends During fiscal years and , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) Fiscal Year September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , Fiscal Year September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products and certain other matters. evaluating estimated losses these indemnifications, consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and our ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered significant costs result these obligations and have not accrued our financial statements any liabilities related these indemnifications. PART Item Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the payments due fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations June , . ( millions) - - and Thereafter Total Long-term debt: ( ) Principal payments $ $ , $ , $ , $ , Interest payments , , Construction commitments ( ) Operating leases ( ) , Purchase commitments ( ) , , Other long-term liabilities ( ) Total contractual obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) See Note \x96 Debt the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) ( ) These amounts represent commitments for the construction buildings, building improvements and leasehold improvements. ( ) These amounts represent undiscounted future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable facilities leases. ( ) These amounts represent purchase commitments, including all open purchase orders and all contracts that are take- -pay contracts that are not presented construction commitments above. ( ) have excluded long-term tax contingencies, other tax liabilities, and deferred income taxes $ billion and other long-term contingent liabilities $ million (related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits) from the amounts presented, the amounts that will settled cash are not known and the timing any payments uncertain. have also excluded unearned revenue $ billion and non-cash items $ million. Other Planned Uses Capital will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability capital resources. Definitive Agreement with Skype May , , announced that had entered into definitive agreement with Skype Global . (\x93Skype\x94) under which would acquire Skype, leading internet communications company, for $ billion cash. anticipate the acquisition will extend Skype\x92 brand and reach its network platform, while enhancing our existing portfolio real-time communications products and services. The acquisition subject regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. obtained regulatory approval the . and expect obtain all remaining required regulatory approvals during calendar year . Liquidity earn significant amount our operating income outside the ., which deemed permanently reinvested foreign jurisdictions. result, discussed above under Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments, the majority our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held foreign subsidiaries. currently not intend nor foresee need repatriate these funds. expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, PART Item short-term investments, and cash flows from operations continue sufficient fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such regular quarterly dividends, debt repayment schedules, and material capital expenditures, for least the next months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. addition, expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations continue sufficient fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such material capital expenditures, for least the next months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Should require more capital the . than generated our operations domestically, for example fund significant discretionary activities, such acquisitions businesses and share repurchases, could elect repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions raise capital the . through debt equity issuances. These alternatives could result higher effective tax rates, increased interest expense, other dilution our earnings. have borrowed funds domestically and continue have the ability borrow funds domestically reasonable interest rates. result the special dividend paid the second quarter fiscal year and shares repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $ billion June , . Our retained deficit not expected affect our future ability operate, pay dividends, repay our debt given our continuing profitability and strong financial position. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements July , , adopted guidance issued the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) revenue recognition. Under the new guidance arrangements that include software elements, tangible products that have software components that are essential the functionality the tangible product are longer within the scope the software revenue recognition guidance, and software-enabled products are now subject other relevant revenue recognition guidance. Additionally, the FASB issued guidance revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables that are outside the scope the software revenue recognition guidance. Under the new guidance, when vendor specific objective evidence third party evidence for deliverables arrangement cannot determined, best estimate the selling price required separate deliverables and allocate arrangement consideration using the relative selling price method. The new guidance includes new disclosure requirements how the application the relative selling price method affects the timing and amount revenue recognition. Adoption the new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. July , , adopted new guidance issued the FASB the consolidation variable interest entities. The new guidance requires revised evaluations whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. Adoption the new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted June , the FASB issued guidance presentation comprehensive income. The new guidance eliminates the current option report other comprehensive income and its components the statement changes equity. Instead, entity will required present either continuous statement net income and other comprehensive income two separate but consecutive statements. The new guidance will effective for beginning July , and will have presentation changes only. May , the FASB issued guidance amend the accounting and disclosure requirements fair value measurements. The new guidance limits the highest-and-best-use measure nonfinancial assets, permits certain financial assets and liabilities with offsetting positions market counterparty credit risks measured net basis, and provides guidance the applicability premiums and discounts. Additionally, the new guidance PART Item expands the disclosures Level inputs requiring quantitative disclosure the unobservable inputs and assumptions, well description the valuation processes and the sensitivity the fair value changes unobservable inputs. The new guidance will effective for beginning January , . Other than requiring additional disclosures, not anticipate material impacts our financial statements upon adoption. January , the FASB issued guidance amend the disclosure requirements related fair value measurements. The guidance requires the disclosure roll forward activities purchases, sales, issuance, and settlements the assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level fair value measurements). The guidance will become effective for with the reporting period beginning July , . Other than requiring additional disclosures, the adoption this new guidance will not have material impact our financial statements. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States (\x93 . GAAP\x94). Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and stock-based compensation. Revenue Recognition Software revenue recognition requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94) fair value exists for those elements. portion revenue may recorded unearned due undelivered elements. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, and the fair value the respective elements could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. Impairment Investment Securities Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability hold, plans sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense) and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry, and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. Goodwill allocate goodwill reporting units based the reporting unit expected benefit from the business combination. evaluate our reporting units annual basis and, necessary, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (May for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. PART Item Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, estimation the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Among our reporting units, the fair value OSD has been the closest its carrying value. The carrying value OSD\x92 goodwill was $ billion June , . The estimates used calculate the fair value reporting unit change from year year based operating results and market conditions. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product are charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs are capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released manufacturing. The amortization these costs included cost revenue over the estimated life the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such position should measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance derecognition income tax assets and liabilities, classification current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial statements. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the fair value the award and recognized expense over the requisite service period. Determining the fair value stock-based awards the grant date requires judgment, including estimating expected dividends. addition, judgment also required estimating the amount stock-based awards that are expected forfeited. actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results operations could impacted. PART Item STATEMENT MANAGEMENT\x92 RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management responsible for the preparation the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based management\x92 estimates and judgments, have been prepared conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems provide reasonable assurance reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented written policies, organizational structure providing division responsibilities, careful selection and training qualified personnel, and program internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, audit and render opinion the consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely independent directors the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm ensure that each meeting its responsibilities and discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access the Audit Committee. Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Peter . Klein Chief Financial Officer Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer PART Item ', 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK RISKS are exposed economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. portion these risks hedged, but they may impact our financial statements. Foreign Currency Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency positions. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Interest Rate Our fixed-income portfolio diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily investment-grade securities. The credit risk and average maturity the fixed-income portfolio managed achieve economic returns that correlate certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. addition, use \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets gain exposure agency and mortgage-backed securities. Equity Our equity portfolio consists global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject market price risk. manage the securities relative certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return correlate with these indices. Commodity use broad-based commodity exposures enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our investment portfolio has exposure variety commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. manage these exposures relative global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return correlate with these indices. VALUE- -RISK use value- -risk (\x93VaR\x94) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VaR the expected loss, for given confidence level, the fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VaR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States (\x93 . GAAP\x94), but used risk estimation and management tool. The distribution the potential changes total market value all holdings computed based the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. The VaR calculated the total loss that will not exceeded the percentile confidence level , alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the VaR out , cases. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. PART Item The following table sets forth the one-day VaR for substantially all our positions June , and and for the year ended June , : ( millions) June , June , Year Ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Foreign currency $ $ $ $ $ Interest rate $ $ $ $ $ Equity $ $ $ $ $ Commodity $ $ $ $ $ Total one-day VaR for the combined risk categories was $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VaR % less June , , and % less June , , than the sum the separate risk categories the above table due the diversification benefit the combination risks. PART Item ', 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income (expense) ( ) Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ See accompanying notes. PART Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments (including securities loaned $ , and $ ) , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ and $ , , Inventories , Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net accumulated depreciation $ , and $ , , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net , Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Short-term debt , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , Short-term unearned revenue , , Securities lending payable , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Deferred income taxes , Other long-term liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ , and $ , ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash from operations: Depreciation, amortization, and other , , , Stock-based compensation expense , , , Net recognized losses (gains) investments and derivatives ( ) ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred income taxes ( ) Deferral unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( , ) ( , ) , Inventories ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( , ) ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) Accounts payable ( ) Other current liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Other long-term liabilities , , , Net cash from operations , , , Financing Short-term debt borrowings (repayments), maturities days less, net ( ) ( ) , Proceeds from issuance debt, maturities longer than days , , , Repayments debt, maturities longer than days ( ) ( , ) ( ) Common stock issued , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock cash dividends paid ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation Other ( ) ( ) Net cash used financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired ( ) ( ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Securities lending payable , ( , ) ( ) Net cash used investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Effect exchange rates cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) Net change cash and cash equivalents , ( ) ( , ) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and cash equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock-based compensation income tax deficiencies ( ) ( ) ( ) Other, net ( ) Balance, end period , , , Retained deficit Balance, beginning period ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Net unrealized gains (losses) derivatives ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) investments , ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) ( ) Comprehensive income , , , Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE \x97 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting Principles The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America (\x93 . GAAP\x94). Principles Consolidation The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments through which exercise significant influence over but not control the investee and are not the primary beneficiary the investee\x92 activities are accounted for using the equity method. Investments through which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee and which not have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the cost method. Estimates and Assumptions Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include: estimates loss contingencies, product warranties, product life cycles, product returns, and stock-based compensation forfeiture rates; assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; estimating the fair value and goodwill impairment for our reporting units; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded Other Comprehensive Income (\x93OCI\x94). Revenue Recognition Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. Revenue generally recognized net any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted governmental authorities. Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94), and perpetual licenses under certain volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped made available. Revenue for products under technology guarantee programs, which provide free significantly discounted rights use upcoming new versions software product end user licenses existing versions the product during the eligibility period, allocated between existing product and the new product, and revenue allocated the new product deferred until that version delivered. The revenue allocation based vendor-specific objective evidence fair value the products. Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis (\x93Software Assurance\x94) and are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Revenue from certain arrangements that allow for the use product service over PART Item period time without taking possession software are also accounted for subscriptions. Revenue for software products where customers have the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements when-and- -available basis and for which vendor-specific objective evidence fair value does not exist for the upgrades enhancements recognized straight-line basis over the estimated life the software. Revenue related our Xbox gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox , games published , and other hardware components generally recognized when ownership transferred the resellers. Revenue related games published third parties for use the Xbox platform recognized when games are manufactured the game publishers. Display advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Consulting revenue for fixed-price services arrangements recognized services are provided. Revenue from prepaid points redeemable for the purchase software services recognized upon redemption the points and delivery the software services. Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes; manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred include software PCs sold OEMs, drive traffic our Web sites, and acquire online advertising space (\x93traffic acquisition costs\x94); costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, including royalties; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery consulting services; and the amortization capitalized research and development costs. Capitalized research and development costs are amortized over the estimated lives the products. Product Warranty provide for the estimated costs fulfilling our obligations under hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranties, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and the country which business, but generally include parts and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software warranties, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the estimated life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. Research and Development Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Such costs related software development are included research and development expense until the point that technological feasibility reached, which for our software products, generally shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Once technological feasibility reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized cost revenue over the estimated lives the products. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. PART Item Employee Severance record employee severance when specific plan has been approved management, the plan has been communicated employees, and unlikely that significant changes will made the plan. January , announced and implemented resource management program reduce discretionary operating expenses, employee headcount, and capital expenditures. Severance expenses associated with this program were $ million and $ million fiscal years and , respectively, and are included general and administrative expenses. Stock-Based Compensation measure stock-based compensation cost the grant date based the fair value the award and recognize expense over the vesting service period, applicable, the stock award (generally four five years) using the straight-line method. Employee Stock Purchase Plan Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the stock the last day each three-month period. Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan measured the discount the employee entitled upon purchase and recognized the period purchase. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested, and interest and penalties uncertain tax positions. Certain income and expenses are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. The deferred income taxes are classified current long-term based the classification the related asset liability. Fair Value Measurements account for certain assets and liabilities fair value. The hierarchy below lists three levels fair value based the extent which inputs used measuring fair value are observable the market. categorize each our fair value measurements one these three levels based the lowest level input that significant the fair value measurement its entirety. These levels are: \x95 Level \x96 inputs are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments traded active markets. Our Level non-derivative investments primarily include . treasuries, domestic and international equities, and actively traded mutual funds. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities include those actively traded exchanges. \x95 Level \x96 inputs are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments active markets, quoted prices for identical similar instruments markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques ( . the Black-Scholes model) for which all significant inputs are observable the market can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. Our Level non-derivative investments consist primarily corporate notes and bonds, mortgage-backed securities, agency securities, certificates deposit, and commercial paper. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities primarily include certain over-the-counter option and swap contracts. PART Item \x95 Level \x96 inputs are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\x92 estimates assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. The fair values are therefore determined using model-based techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash flow models. Our Level non-derivative assets primarily comprise investments certain corporate bonds. value these corporate bonds using internally developed valuation models, inputs which include interest rate curves, credit spreads, stock prices, and volatilities. Unobservable inputs used these models are significant the fair values the investments. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities primarily comprise derivatives for foreign equities. certain cases, market-based observable inputs are not available and use management judgment develop assumptions determine fair value for these derivatives. measure certain assets, including our cost and equity method investments, fair value nonrecurring basis when they are deemed other-than-temporarily impaired. The fair values these investments are determined based valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections. impairment charge recorded when the cost the investment exceeds its fair value and this condition determined other-than-temporary. Our current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying values. Our long-term financial liabilities consist long-term debt which recorded the balance sheet issuance price less unamortized discount. Financial Instruments consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. The fair values these investments approximate their carrying values. general, investments with original maturities greater than three months and remaining maturities less than one year are classified short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments classified long-term include both debt and equity instruments. Debt and publicly-traded equity securities are classified available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected OCI. Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost using the equity method. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Cash and security interests are received collateral for the loan securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash received recorded asset with corresponding liability. Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. Fair value calculated based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. employ systematic methodology quarterly basis that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability hold, plans sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense) and new cost basis the investment established. PART Item Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instrument designated fair-value hedge, the gain (loss) recognized earnings the period change together with the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the risk being hedged. For options designated fair-value hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments designated cash-flow hedges, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain (loss) initially reported component OCI and subsequently recognized earnings when the hedged exposure recognized earnings. For options designated cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains (losses) derivatives representing either hedge components excluded from the assessment effectiveness hedge ineffectiveness are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that are not designated hedges, gains (losses) from changes fair values are primarily recognized other income (expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset unrealized gains (losses) the underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded component OCI until the securities are sold other-than-temporarily impaired, which time the amounts are moved from OCI into other income (expense). Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ $ Charged costs and other Write-offs ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis through charge cost revenue. Property and Equipment Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated useful life the asset the lease term. The estimated useful lives our property and equipment are generally follows: computer software developed acquired for internal use, three years; computer equipment, two three years; buildings and improvements, five years; leasehold improvements, two years; and furniture and equipment, one five years. Land not depreciated. PART Item Goodwill Goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (May for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. Intangible Assets All our intangible assets are subject amortization and are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically taking into account events circumstances that may warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate the asset may impaired. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Recently adopted accounting pronouncements July , , adopted guidance issued the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) revenue recognition. Under the new guidance arrangements that include software elements, tangible products that have software components that are essential the functionality the tangible product are longer within the scope the software revenue recognition guidance, and software-enabled products are now subject other relevant revenue recognition guidance. Additionally, the FASB issued guidance revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables that are outside the scope the software revenue recognition guidance. Under the new guidance, when vendor specific objective evidence third party evidence for deliverables arrangement cannot determined, best estimate the selling price required separate deliverables and allocate arrangement consideration using the relative selling price method. The new guidance includes new disclosure requirements how the application the relative selling price method affects the timing and amount revenue recognition. Adoption the new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. July , , adopted new guidance issued the FASB the consolidation variable interest entities. The new guidance requires revised evaluations whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. Adoption the new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. Recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted June , the FASB issued guidance presentation comprehensive income. The new guidance eliminates the current option report other comprehensive income and its components the statement changes equity. Instead, entity will required present either continuous statement net income and other comprehensive income two separate but consecutive statements. The new guidance will effective for beginning July , and will have presentation changes only. May , the FASB issued guidance amend the accounting and disclosure requirements fair value measurements. The new guidance limits the highest-and-best-use measure nonfinancial assets, permits certain financial assets and liabilities with offsetting positions market counterparty credit risks measured net basis, and provides guidance the applicability premiums and discounts. Additionally, the new guidance expands the disclosures Level inputs requiring quantitative disclosure the unobservable inputs and assumptions, well description the valuation processes and the sensitivity the fair value changes unobservable inputs. The new guidance will effective for beginning January , . Other than requiring additional disclosures, not anticipate material impacts our financial statements upon adoption. PART Item January , the FASB issued guidance amend the disclosure requirements related fair value measurements. The guidance requires the disclosure roll forward activities purchases, sales, issuance, and settlements the assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level fair value measurements). The guidance will become effective for with the reporting period beginning July , . Other than requiring additional disclosures, the adoption this new guidance will not have material impact our financial statements. NOTE \x97 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share (\x93EPS\x94) computed based the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS computed based the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components basic and diluted EPS are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June , Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect stock-based awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings Per Share Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ excluded the following shares underlying stock-based awards from the calculations diluted EPS because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive: ( millions) Year Ended June , Shares excluded from calculations diluted EPS The decrease anti-dilutive shares from fiscal year was due mainly the decrease employee stock options outstanding. June , issued $ billion zero-coupon debt securities that are convertible into shares our common stock certain conditions are met. June , , none these securities had met price other conditions that would make them eligible for issuance and therefore were excluded from the calculation either the basic diluted EPS. See Note \x96 Debt for additional information. NOTE \x97 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) The components other income (expense) were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Dividends and interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains (losses) investments ( ) Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Net gains (losses) foreign currency remeasurements ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Total $ $ $ ( ) PART Item Following are details net recognized gains (losses) investments during the periods reported: ( millions) Year Ended June , Other-than-temporary impairments investments $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Realized gains from sales available-for-sale securities , Realized losses from sales available-for-sale securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ $ $ ( ) NOTE \x97 INVESTMENTS Investment Components The components investments, including associated derivatives, were follows: ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity and Other Investments June , Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Mutual funds , , , Commercial paper Certificates deposit . government and agency securities , ( ) , , , Foreign government bonds ( ) Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , , Municipal securities ( ) Common and preferred stock , , ( ) , , Other investments Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity and Other Investments June , Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Mutual funds , , , Commercial paper Certificates deposit . government and agency securities , ( ) , , , Foreign government bonds Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , Municipal securities ( ) Common and preferred stock , , ( ) , , Other investments Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , PART Item Unrealized Losses Investments Investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than months and months greater and their related fair values were follows: Less than Months Months Greater Total Fair Value Total Unrealized Losses ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses June , . government and agency securities $ $ ( ) $ $ $ $ ( ) Foreign government bonds ( ) ( ) Mortgage-backed securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate notes and bonds ( ) ( ) ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) Common and preferred stock , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Less than Months Months Greater Total Fair Value Total Unrealized Losses ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses June , . government and agency securities $ $ ( ) $ $ $ $ ( ) Mortgage-backed securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) Common and preferred stock , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. Management does not believe any remaining unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairments based our evaluation available evidence June , . June , and , the recorded bases and estimated fair values common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded were $ million and $ million, respectively. Debt Investment Maturities ( millions) Cost Basis Estimated Fair Value June , Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through years , , Due after years , , Total $ , $ , PART Item NOTE \x97 DERIVATIVES use derivative instruments manage risks related foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Our derivative programs include strategies that both qualify and not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. All notional amounts presented below are measured . currency equivalents. Foreign Currency Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Option and forward contracts are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash-flow hedging instruments. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. June , and , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Foreign currency risks related certain non- . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair-value hedging instruments. June , and , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments are also used manage the variability exchange rates accounts receivable, cash, and intercompany positions, and manage other foreign currency exposures. June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Equity Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject market price risk. Market price risk managed relative broad-based global and domestic equity indices using certain convertible preferred investments, options, futures, and swap contracts not designated hedging instruments. From time time, hedge our price risk, may use and designate equity derivatives hedging instruments, including puts, calls, swaps, and forwards. June , , the total notional amounts designated and non-designated equity contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts designated and non-designated equity contracts purchased and sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. Interest Rate Securities held our fixed-income portfolio are subject different interest rate risks based their maturities. manage the average maturity our fixed-income portfolio achieve economic returns that correlate certain broad-based fixed-income indices using exchange-traded option and futures contracts and over-the-counter swap and option contracts, none which are designated hedging instruments. June , , the total notional amounts fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. addition, use \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets gain exposure agency mortgage-backed securities. These meet the definition derivative instrument cases where physical delivery the assets not taken the earliest available delivery date. June , and , the total notional derivative amount mortgage contracts purchased were $ million and $ million, respectively. Credit Our fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment-grade securities. use credit default swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments, manage credit exposures relative broad-based indices and facilitate portfolio diversification. use credit default swaps they are low cost method managing PART Item exposure individual credit risks groups credit risks. June , , the total notional amounts credit contracts purchased and sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts credit contracts purchased and sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. Commodity use broad-based commodity exposures enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. use swap, futures and option contracts, not designated hedging instruments, generate and manage exposures broad-based commodity indices. use derivatives commodities they can low-cost alternatives the purchase and storage variety commodities, including, but not limited , precious metals, energy, and grain. June , , the total notional amounts commodity contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts commodity contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. Credit Risk-Related Contingent Features Certain our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that require our issued and outstanding long-term unsecured debt maintain investment grade credit rating and require maintain minimum liquidity $ billion. the extent fail meet these requirements, will required post collateral, similar the standard convention related over-the-counter derivatives. June , , our long-term unsecured debt rating was AAA, and cash investments were excess $ billion. result, collateral was required posted. Fair Values Derivative Instruments Following are the gross fair values derivative instruments designated hedging instruments (\x93designated hedge derivatives\x94) and not designated hedging instruments (\x93non-designated hedge derivatives\x94) that were held June , and . The fair values exclude the impact netting derivative assets and liabilities when legally enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk. ( millions) Foreign Exchange Contracts Equity Contracts Interest Rate Contracts Credit Contracts Commodity Contracts Total Derivatives June , Assets Non-designated hedge derivatives: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Designated hedge derivatives: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Total assets $ $ $ $ $ $ Liabilities Non-designated hedge derivatives: Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Designated hedge derivatives: Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Total liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) PART Item ( millions) Foreign Exchange Contracts Equity Contracts Interest Rate Contracts Credit Contracts Commodity Contracts Total Derivatives June , Assets Non-designated hedge derivatives: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Designated hedge derivatives: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Total assets $ $ $ $ $ $ Liabilities Non-designated hedge derivatives: Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Designated hedge derivatives: Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Total liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) See also Note \x96 Investments and Note \x96 Fair Value Measurements. Fair Value Hedge Gains (Losses) recognized other income (expense) the following gains (losses) related fair value hedges and their related hedged items: ( millions) Year Ended June , Foreign Exchange Contracts Derivatives $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Hedged items ( ) Total $ ( ) $ $ Equity Contracts Derivatives $ $ $ Hedged items ( ) Total $ $ $ ( ) PART Item Cash Flow Hedge Gains (Losses) recognized the following gains (losses) related foreign exchange contracts designated cash flow hedges (our only cash flow hedges during the periods reported): ( millions) Year Ended June , Effective Portion Gain (loss) recognized OCI, net tax effect $( ), $ and $ $ ( ) $ $ Gain (loss) reclassified from OCI into revenue $ ( ) $ $ Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Assessment and Ineffective Portion Loss recognized other income (expense) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) estimate that $ million net derivative losses included OCI June , will reclassified into earnings within the following months. significant amounts gains (losses) were reclassified from OCI into earnings result forecasted transactions that failed occur during fiscal year . Non-Designated Derivative Gains (Losses) Gains (losses) from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges are primarily recognized other income (expense). These amounts are shown the table below, with the exception gains (losses) derivatives presented income statement line items other than other income (expense), which were immaterial for all periods presented. Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such commodity contracts, the gains (losses) below are generally economically offset unrealized gains (losses) the underlying available-for-sale securities. ( millions) Year Ended June , Foreign exchange contracts $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Equity contracts ( ) Interest-rate contracts ( ) Credit contracts ( ) Commodity contracts ( ) ( ) Total $ $ $ ( ) PART Item NOTE \x97 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS Assets and Liabilities Measured Fair Value Recurring Basis The following tables present the fair value our financial instruments that are measured fair value recurring basis: ( millions) Level Level Level Gross Fair Value Netting ( ) Net Fair Value June , Assets Mutual funds $ , $ $ $ , $ $ , Commercial paper Certificates deposit . government and agency securities , , , , Foreign government bonds Mortgage-backed securities , , , Corporate notes and bonds , , , Municipal securities Common and preferred stock , , , Derivatives ( ) Total $ , $ , $ $ , $ ( ) $ , Liabilities Derivatives and other $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( millions) Level Level Level Gross Fair Value Netting ( ) Net Fair Value June , Assets Mutual funds $ , $ $ $ , $ $ , Commercial paper Certificates deposit . government and agency securities , , , , Foreign government bonds Mortgage-backed securities , , , Corporate notes and bonds , , , Municipal securities Common and preferred stock , , , Derivatives ( ) Total $ , $ , $ $ , $ ( ) $ , Liabilities Derivatives and other $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) These amounts represent the impact netting derivative assets and derivative liabilities when legally enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk. PART Item The table below reconciles the total Net Fair Value assets above the balance sheet presentation these same assets Note \x96 Investments for June , and . ( millions) June , Net fair value assets measured fair value recurring basis $ , $ , Cash , , Common and preferred stock measured fair value nonrecurring basis Other investments measured fair value nonrecurring basis Less derivative assets classified other current assets ( ) ( ) Other Recorded basis investment components $ , $ , Changes Financial Instruments Measured Level Fair Value Recurring Basis The following tables present the changes during the fiscal years and our Level financial instruments that are measured fair value recurring basis. The majority these instruments consist investment securities classified available-for-sale with changes fair value included OCI. ( millions) Corporate Notes and Bonds Common and Preferred Stock Derivative Assets Total Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ $ $ Total realized and unrealized gains (losses): Included other income (expense) Included other comprehensive income ( ) ( ) Purchases, issuances and settlements ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ $ Change unrealized gains (losses) included other income (expense) related assets held June , $ $ $ $ ( millions) Corporate Notes and Bonds Common and Preferred Stock Derivative Assets Total Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ $ $ Total realized and unrealized gains (losses): Included other income (expense) Included other comprehensive income ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ $ Change unrealized gains (losses) included other income (expense) related assets held June , $ $ $ $ Assets and Liabilities Measured Fair Value Nonrecurring Basis During fiscal years and , impairment charges $ million and $ million, respectively, were recognized for certain investments measured fair value nonrecurring basis, the decline their respective fair values below their cost was determined other than temporary all instances. June , and , held common and preferred stocks that were required measured fair value nonrecurring basis. PART Item NOTE \x97 INVENTORIES The components inventories were follows: ( millions) June , Raw materials $ $ Work process Finished goods , Total $ , $ NOTE \x97 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT The components property and equipment were follows: ( millions) June , Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements , , Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment , , Total, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Total, net $ , $ , During fiscal years , , and , depreciation expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. NOTE \x97 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS During fiscal year , acquired three entities for total consideration $ million, substantially all which was paid cash. During fiscal year , acquired five entities for total consideration $ million, substantially all which was paid cash. During fiscal year , also sold three entities for total consideration $ million, including Razorfish the second quarter fiscal year . During fiscal year , acquired nine entities for total consideration $ million, substantially all which was paid cash. These entities have been included removed from our consolidated results operations since their acquisition sale dates, respectively. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects these business combinations, individually and the aggregate, were not material our consolidated results operations. Definitive Agreement with Skype May , , announced that had entered into definitive agreement with Skype Global . (\x93Skype\x94) under which would acquire Skype, leading internet communications company, for $ billion cash. The acquisition will extend Skype\x92 brand and reach its network platform, while enhancing our existing portfolio real-time communications products and services. The acquisition subject regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. obtained regulatory approval the . and expect obtain all remaining required regulatory approvals during calendar year . PART Item NOTE \x97 GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill for fiscal years and segment were follows: Balance June , Acquisitions Purchase Accounting Adjustments and Other Balance June , Acquisitions Purchase Accounting Adjustments and Other Balance June , ( millions) Windows & Windows Live Division $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Server and Tools , ( ) , , Online Services Division , ( ) , , Microsoft Business Division , ( ) , , Entertainment and Devices Division ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ $ $ , None the amounts recorded goodwill are expected deductible for tax purposes. The measurement period for purchase price allocations ends soon information the facts and circumstances becomes available, but will not exceed months. Adjustments the purchase price allocation may require recasting the amounts allocated goodwill retroactive the period which the acquisition occurred. Any change the goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations are presented \x93other\x94 the above table. Also included within \x93other\x94 for fiscal year $ million goodwill associated with business dispositions. See also Note \x96 Business Combinations. test goodwill for impairment annually May the reporting unit level using fair value approach. impairment goodwill was identified May , . NOTE \x97 INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components intangible assets, all which are finite-lived, were follows: ( millions) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Year Ended June , Contract-based $ , $ ( ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ Technology-based ( ) , ( , ) , ( , ) Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( , ) $ $ , $ ( , ) $ , ( ) Technology-based intangible assets included $ million and $ million June , and , respectively, net carrying amount software sold, leased, otherwise marketed. estimate that have significant residual value related our intangible assets. material impairments intangible assets were identified during any the periods presented. PART Item The components intangible assets acquired during fiscal years and were follows: ( millions) Amount Weighted Average Life Amount Weighted Average Life Year Ended June , Contract-based $ $ years Technology-based years years Marketing-related years Customer-related years years Total $ years $ years Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for fiscal years , , and , respectively. Amortization capitalized software was $ million, $ million, and $ million for fiscal years , , and , respectively. The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets held June , : ( millions) Year Ending June , $ and thereafter Total $ NOTE \x97 DEBT Short-term Debt During fiscal year , repaid $ billion commercial paper, leaving zero outstanding. November , , our $ billion -day credit facility expired. This facility served back- for our commercial paper program. amounts were drawn against the credit facility during any the periods presented. Long-term Debt June , , the total carrying value and estimated fair value our long-term debt, including convertible debt, were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. This compared carrying value and estimated fair value $ billion and $ billion, respectively, June , . The estimated fair value based quoted prices for our publicly-traded debt June , and , applicable. Maturities long-term debt for each the next five years and thereafter are follows: ( millions) Year Ending June , $ , , , Thereafter , Total $ , PART Item Cash paid for interest our debt for fiscal years and was $ million and $ million, respectively. cash was paid for debt interest for fiscal year . The components long-term debt, the associated interest rates, and the semi-annual interest record and payment dates were follows June , : Due Date Face Value Stated Interest Rate Effective Interest Rate Interest Record Date Interest Pay Date Interest Record Date Interest Pay Date ( millions) Notes September , $ , % % March March September September June , , % % May June November December September , , % % March March September September February , % % February February August August June , , % % May June November December October , , % % March April September October February , % % February February August August June , % % May June November December October , , % % March April September October February , , % % February February August August Total , Convertible Debt June , , % % Total unamortized discount ( ) Total $ , The components long-term debt, the associated interest rates, and the semi-annual interest record and payment dates were follows June , : Due Date Face Value Stated Interest Rate Effective Interest Rate Interest Record Date Interest Pay Date Interest Record Date Interest Pay Date ( millions) Notes June , $ , % % May June November December June , , % % May June November December June , % % May June November December Total , Convertible Debt June , , % % Total unamortized discount ( ) Total $ , Notes The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. PART Item Convertible debt June , issued $ billion zero coupon convertible unsecured debt due June , private placement offering. Proceeds from the offering were $ billion, net fees and expenses, which were capitalized. Each $ , principal amount notes convertible into shares Microsoft common stock conversion price $ per share. June , , the net carrying amount our convertible debt was $ billion and the unamortized discount was $ million. Prior March , , the notes will convertible, only certain circumstances, into cash and, applicable, cash, shares Microsoft\x92 common stock, combination thereof, our election. after March , , the notes will convertible any time. Upon conversion, will pay cash the aggregate principal amount the notes and pay deliver cash, shares our common stock, combination cash and shares our common stock, our election. Because the convertible debt may wholly partially settled cash, are required separately account for the liability and equity components the notes manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized subsequent periods. The net proceeds $ billion were allocated between debt for $ billion and stockholders\x92 equity for $ million with the portion stockholders\x92 equity representing the fair value the option convert the debt. connection with the issuance the notes, entered into capped call transactions with certain option counterparties who are initial purchasers the notes their affiliates. The capped call transactions are expected reduce potential dilution earnings per share upon conversion the notes. Under the capped call transactions, purchased from the option counterparties capped call options that the aggregate relate the total number shares our common stock underlying the notes, with strike price equal the conversion price the notes and with cap price equal $ . The purchased capped calls were valued $ million and recorded stockholders\x92 equity. NOTE \x97 INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Current Taxes . federal $ , $ , $ , . state and local International , , , Current taxes , , , Deferred Taxes Deferred taxes ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , . and international components income before income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , PART Item The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the . federal statutory rate and our effective rate were follows: Year Ended June , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Foreign earnings taxed lower rates ( )% ( )% ( )% Internal Revenue Service settlement ( )% % % Other reconciling items, net ( )% % % Effective rate % % % The reduction from the federal statutory rate from foreign earnings taxed lower rates results from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico, which are subject lower income tax rates. general, other reconciling items consist interest, . state income taxes, domestic production deductions, and credits. fiscal years , , and , there were individually significant other reconciling items. The . settlement discussed below. The components the deferred income tax assets and liabilities were follows: ( millions) June , Deferred Income Tax Assets Stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , Other expense items , , Unearned revenue Impaired investments Other revenue items Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred Income Tax Liabilities International earnings $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Unrealized gain investments ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Reported Current deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when the taxes are actually paid recovered. have not provided deferred . income taxes foreign withholding taxes temporary differences approximately $ billion resulting from earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the . The unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences approximately $ billion. Income taxes paid were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. PART Item Uncertain Tax Positions June , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. June , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would have affected our effective tax rate. Interest unrecognized tax benefits was $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. June , , , and , had accrued interest related uncertain tax positions $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively, net federal income tax benefits. The aggregate changes the balance unrecognized tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year $ , $ , $ , Decreases related settlements ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases for tax positions related the current year , , Increases for tax positions related prior years Decreases for tax positions related prior years ( ) ( ) ( ) Decreases due lapsed statute limitations ( ) ( ) Balance, end year $ , $ , $ , During the third quarter fiscal year , reached partial settlement agreement with the . tax years and recorded $ million income tax provision benefit. During the fourth quarter fiscal year , the . completed its examination and issued Revenue Agent\x92 Report (\x93RAR\x94) for the remaining unresolved items. not agree with the adjustments the RAR, and have filed protest initiate the administrative appeals process. The proposed adjustments are primarily related transfer pricing and could have significant impact our financial statements not resolved favorably. not believe reasonably possible that the total amount unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase decrease within the next months, not believe the appeals process will concluded within the next months. also continue subject examination the . for tax years . are subject income tax many jurisdictions outside the ., and certain jurisdictions remain subject examination and are currently under audit local tax authorities. The resolutions these audits are not expected material our financial statements. NOTE \x97 UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs, well payments for offerings for which have been paid advance and earn the revenue when provide the service software otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. Volume Licensing Programs Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid either inception the agreement annually the beginning each billing coverage period and accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Other Also included unearned revenue are payments for post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future; Xbox LIVE subscriptions and prepaid points; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; technology guarantee programs; OEM minimum commitments; unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis for Windows ; and other offerings for which have been paid advance and earn the revenue when provide the service software otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. PART Item The components unearned revenue were follows: ( millions) June , Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Other , , Total $ , $ , Unearned revenue segment was follows: ( millions) June , Windows & Windows Live Division $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Microsoft Business Division , , Other segments Total $ , $ , NOTE \x97 OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES ( millions) June , Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities $ , $ , Legal contingencies Other Total $ , $ , NOTE \x97 COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES Construction and Operating Leases have committed $ million for constructing new buildings, building improvements and leasehold improvements June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for facilities operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million, fiscal years , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable facilities operating leases place June , are follows: ( millions) Year Ending June , $ and thereafter Total $ , PART Item Indemnifications provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products and certain other matters. evaluate estimated losses for these indemnifications, and consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered significant costs result these obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related these indemnifications our financial statements. Yahoo! Commercial Agreement December , , entered into definitive agreement with Yahoo! whereby Microsoft will provide the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! Web sites. The term the agreement years subject termination provisions after five years based performance. Microsoft provided Yahoo! with revenue per search guarantees for period months after implementation the Microsoft search ads platform each country. These guarantees are calculated, paid and trued- periodically based the cumulative reduction revenue per search, any, during the -month period from pre-implementation levels, except the case the . and Canada where performance during each the first two calendar quarters after implementation independent and not cumulative. This rate guarantee and not guarantee search volume. estimate the total cost the revenue per search guarantees during the guarantee period could range $ million. Microsoft also agreed reimburse Yahoo! for certain transition expenses incurred both before and after the effective date the agreement. Finally, Microsoft also agreed reimburse Yahoo! for certain costs running algorithmic and paid search services prior migration Microsoft\x92 platform. Product Warranty The changes our aggregate product warranty liabilities, which are included other current liabilities and other long term-liabilities our balance sheets, were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year $ $ Accruals for warranties issued Adjustments pre-existing warranties ( ) Settlements warranty claims ( ) ( ) Balance, end year $ $ NOTE \x97 CONTINGENCIES Government Competition Law Matters Since , have been subject Consent Decree and Final Judgment (\x93Final Judgments\x94) that resolved lawsuits brought the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia two separate actions. The Final Judgments imposed various constraints our Windows operating system businesses. The Final Judgments expired May . other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state attorneys general have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. PART Item Antitrust, Unfair Competition, and Overcharge Class Actions large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits were filed against various state, federal, and Canadian courts behalf various classes direct and indirect purchasers our operating system and certain other software products. obtained dismissals damages claims indirect purchasers under federal law and states. Courts refused certify classes two additional states. have reached agreements settle all claims that have been made date states and the District Columbia. The settlements all states have received final court approval. Under the settlements, generally class members can obtain vouchers that entitle them reimbursed for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value vouchers that may issue varies state. will make available certain schools percentage those vouchers that are not issued claimed (one-half two-thirds depending the state). The total value vouchers ultimately issue will depend the number class members who make claims and are issued vouchers. The maximum value vouchers issued approximately $ billion. The actual costs these settlements will less than that maximum amount, depending the number class members and schools that are issued and redeem vouchers. estimate the total cost resolve all the state overcharge class action cases will range between $ billion and $ billion. June , , have recorded liability related these claims approximately $ million, which reflects our estimated exposure $ billion less payments made date approximately $ billion mostly for vouchers, legal fees, and administrative expenses. The three cases pending British Columbia, Ontario, and Quebec, Canada have not been settled. March , the court the British Columbia case certified class action. April , , the British Columbia Court Appeal reversed the class certification ruling and dismissed the case, holding that indirect purchasers not have claim. The plaintiffs have sought review the Canadian Supreme Court. The other two actions have been stayed. Other Antitrust Litigation and Claims November , Novell, Inc. (\x93Novell\x94) filed complaint . District Court for the District Utah (later transferred federal court Maryland), asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against related Novell\x92 ownership WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June and March . June , the trial court granted our motion dismiss four six claims the complaint. March the trial court granted summary judgment favor Microsoft all remaining claims. The court appeals has reversed that ruling, and the case scheduled for trial Utah October . Patent and Intellectual Property Claims , filed action . District Court California seeking declaratory judgment that not infringe certain Alcatel-Lucent patents (although this action began before the merger Alcatel and Lucent , for simplicity refer the post-merger entity Alcatel-Lucent). April , jury returned verdict Alcatel-Lucent\x92 favor trial consolidated group one video and three user interface patents. The jury concluded that had infringed two user interface patents and awarded $ million damages. June , the trial judge increased the amount damages $ million include $ million interest. appealed that award. December , entered into settlement agreement resolving all other litigation pending between Microsoft and Alcatel-Lucent, leaving approximately $ million remaining dispute. September , the court appeals affirmed the liability award but vacated the verdict and remanded the case the trial court for -trial the damages ruling, indicating the damages previously awarded were too high. Trial the remanded damages claim was held July . October , Uniloc USA Inc. (\x93Uniloc\x94), subsidiary Singapore-based company, filed patent infringement suit . District Court Rhode Island, claiming that product activation technology supporting Windows and certain other Microsoft programs violated Uniloc patent. After obtained favorable summary judgment that did not infringe any the claims this patent, the court appeals vacated the trial court decision and remanded PART Item the case for trial. April , the jury returned $ million verdict against , including finding willful infringement. September , the district court judge overturned the jury verdict, ruling that the evidence did not support the jury\x92 findings either that Microsoft infringed the patent was willful. Uniloc appealed, and January the court appeals reversed the district court\x92 finding non-infringement (thus reinstating the jury verdict infringement) but affirmed the district court\x92 ruling that Microsoft was not willful and affirmed the district court\x92 grant new trial damages. Uniloc\x92 petition for rehearing the court appeals\x92 decision damages was denied. new trial damages has been set for January . March , i4i Limited Partnership (\x93i4i\x94) sued Microsoft . District Court Texas claiming that certain custom XML technology Word and infringed i4i\x92 patent. May , jury returned verdict against , finding damages $ million and that willfully infringed the patent. August , the court denied our post-trial motions and awarded enhanced damages $ million and prejudgment interest $ million. The court also issued permanent injunction prohibiting additional distribution the allegedly infringing technology. appealed and the appellate court stayed the injunction pending our appeal. December , the court appeals rejected our appeal and affirmed the trial court\x92 judgment and injunction, except that the court appeals modified the effective date the injunction January , . appealed the . Supreme Court, and June the court affirmed the judgment the court appeals. October , filed suit against Motorola with the International Trade Commission (\x93ITC\x94) and . District Court Washington for infringement nine Microsoft patents Motorola\x92 Android-based devices. Since then, Microsoft and Motorola have filed additional actions against each other the ITC and federal courts Washington, Wisconsin, Florida, and California. Microsoft asserts Motorola\x92 Android-based devices violate its patents, and Motorola asserts various Microsoft products (including Windows, Windows Phone , Windows Mobile , Xbox, Bing Maps, Hotmail, Messenger, and Exchange Server) violate Motorola patents. Microsoft also claims Motorola has breached its contractual commitments the Institute Electrical and Electronics Engineers (\x93IEEE\x94) and International Telecommunications Union (\x93ITU\x94) license identified patents related wireless and video coding technologies under reasonable and non-discriminatory (\x93RAND\x94) terms and conditions. Motorola asserts that Microsoft breached contractual commitments the Card Association license two patents under RAND terms and conditions, and asserts federal antitrust and state unfair business practice claims. Trial our ITC case set for August , trial Motorola\x92 ITC case set for October , and trial both parties\x92 patent infringement claims Florida also set for October . addition these cases, there are approximately other patent infringement cases pending against Microsoft. Other also are subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against , individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial statements, these matters are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. June , , had accrued aggregate liabilities $ million other current liabilities and $ million other long-term liabilities for all the contingent matters described this note. While intend vigorously defend these matters, there exists the possibility adverse outcomes that estimate could reach approximately $ million aggregate beyond recorded amounts. Were unfavorable final outcomes occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial statements for the period which the effects become reasonably estimable. PART Item NOTE \x97 STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares Outstanding Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , Share Repurchases September , , announced the completion the two repurchase programs approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. September , , also announced that our Board Directors approved new share repurchase program authorizing $ billion share repurchases with expiration date September , . June , , approximately $ billion remained the $ billion approved repurchase amount. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. repurchased the following shares common stock under the above-described repurchase plans using cash resources: ( millions) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount Year Ended June , ( ) ( ) ( ) First quarter $ , $ , $ , Second quarter , , , Third quarter , Fourth quarter , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) All shares repurchased fiscal years and were repurchased under the plan approved our Board Directors September , . ( ) the million shares common stock repurchased fiscal year , million shares were repurchased for $ billion under the plan approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year . The remaining shares were repurchased under the plan approved our Board Directors September , . Dividends fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , PART Item The dividend declared June , will paid after the filing date this report Form - and was included other current liabilities June , . fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , The dividend declared June , was included other current liabilities June , . NOTE \x97 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The activity other comprehensive income and related income tax effects were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Net Unrealized Gains Derivatives Unrealized gains (losses), net tax effects $( ) , $ , and $ $ ( ) $ $ Reclassification adjustment for gains included net income, net tax effects $ , $( ), and $( ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains derivatives $ ( ) $ $ Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) Investments Unrealized gains (losses), net tax effects $ , $ , and $( ) $ , $ $ ( ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included net income, net tax effects $( ) , $( ), and $ ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) investments , ( ) Translation adjustments and other, net tax effects $ , $( ) and $( ) ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) $ $ $ ( ) The components accumulated other comprehensive income were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Net unrealized gains (losses) derivatives $ ( ) $ $ Net unrealized gains investments , Translation adjustments and other ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ , $ NOTE \x97 EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS grant stock-based compensation directors and employees. June , , aggregate million shares were authorized for future grant under our stock plans, covering stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards, and excluding shares reserved for issuance under our employee stock purchase plan. Awards that expire are canceled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. issue new shares Microsoft common stock satisfy exercises and vestings awards granted under all our stock plans. PART Item Stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefits related stock-based compensation $ $ $ Stock Plans (Excluding Stock Options) Stock awards Stock awards (\x93SAs\x94) are grants that entitle the holder shares Microsoft common stock the award vests. Our SAs generally vest over five-year period. Shared performance stock awards Shared performance stock awards (\x93SPSAs\x94) are form which the number shares ultimately received depends our business performance against specified performance targets. granted SPSAs for fiscal years , , and with performance periods July , through June , , July , through June , , and July , through June , , respectively. August following the end each performance period, the number shares stock subject the award determined multiplying the target award percentage ranging from % %. The percentage based performance metrics for the performance period, determined the Compensation Committee the Board Directors its sole discretion. additional number shares, approximately % the total target SPSAs, are available additional awards participants based individual performance. One-quarter the shares stock subject each award vest following the end the performance period, and additional one-quarter the shares vest each the following three anniversaries the grant date. Executive Officer Incentive Plan Under the Executive Officer Incentive Plan (\x93EOIP\x94), the Compensation Committee awards performance-based compensation executive officers the Company for specified performance periods. During the periods reported, executive officers were eligible receive annual awards comprised cash and SAs from aggregate incentive pool equal percentage the Company\x92 operating income. For fiscal years , , and , the pool was %, %, and % operating income, respectively. September following the end the fiscal year, each executive officer may receive combined cash and award with total value equal fixed percentage the aggregate pool. The fixed percentage ranges between % and % target based assessment the executive officer\x92 performance during the prior fiscal year. Following approval the awards, % the award payable the executive officers cash, and the remaining % converted into for shares Microsoft common stock. The number shares subject the portion the award determined dividing the value % the total award the closing price Microsoft common stock the last business day August each year. The portion the award vests one-quarter immediately after the award approved following fiscal year-end and one-quarter August each the following three years. Activity for all stock plans The fair value each award estimated the date grant using the following assumptions: Year Ended June , Dividends per share (quarterly amounts) $ \x96 $ $ $ - $ Interest rates range % - % % - % % - % PART Item During fiscal year , the following activity occurred under our stock plans: Shares Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value ( millions) Stock Awards Nonvested balance, beginning year $ Granted $ Vested ( ) $ Forfeited ( ) $ Nonvested balance, end year $ Shared Performance Stock Awards Nonvested balance, beginning year $ Granted $ Vested ( ) $ Forfeited ( ) $ Nonvested balance, end year $ June , , there was $ billion and $ million total unrecognized compensation costs related SAs and SPSAs, respectively. These costs are expected recognized over weighted average period years and years, respectively. During fiscal year and , the following activity occurred under our stock plans: ( millions, except fair values) Stock Awards Awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Shared Performance Stock Awards Awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Following are the fair values stock plan awards vested during the periods reported: ( millions) Total vest-date fair value stock awards vested $ , $ , $ , Total vest-date fair value shared performance stock awards vested $ $ $ Stock Options grant stock options primarily conjunction with business acquisitions. granted zero, one million, and one million stock options conjunction with business acquisitions during fiscal years , , and , respectively. Options generally vest over four and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. PART Item Employee stock options activity during was follows: Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( millions) (Years) ( millions) Balance, July , $ Exercised ( ) $ Canceled ( ) $ Balance, June , $ $ Exercisable, June , $ $ Options outstanding June , include approximately two million options that were granted conjunction with business acquisitions. These options have exercise price range $ $ and weighted average exercise price $ . During the periods reported, the following stock option exercise activity occurred: ( millions) Total intrinsic value stock options exercised $ $ $ Cash received from stock option exercises $ , $ , $ Tax benefit realized from stock option exercises $ $ $ Employee Stock Purchase Plan have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the last day each three-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. Employees purchased the following shares during the periods presented: (Shares millions) Year Ended June , Shares purchased Average price per share $ $ $ June , , million shares our common stock were reserved for future issuance through the employee stock purchase plan. Savings Plan have savings plan the . that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, and number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively, and were expensed contributed. Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. PART Item NOTE \x97 SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA its operation the business, management, including our chief operating decision maker, the Company\x92 Chief Executive Officer, reviews certain financial information, including segmented internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. The segment information within this note reported that basis. Our five segments are Windows & Windows Live Division; Server and Tools; Online Services Division; Microsoft Business Division; and Entertainment and Devices Division. Due the integrated structure our business, certain revenue earned and costs incurred one segment may benefit other segments. Revenue certain contracts may allocated among the segments based the relative value the underlying products and services. Costs that are identifiable are allocated the segments that benefit incent cross-collaboration among our segments that one segment not solely burdened the cost mutually beneficial activity. Allocated costs may include those relating development and marketing products and services from which multiple segments benefit, those costs relating services performed one segment behalf other segments. Each allocation measured differently based the specific facts and circumstances the costs being allocated. addition, certain costs incurred corporate level that are identifiable and that benefit our segments are allocated them. These allocated costs include costs : field selling; employee benefits; shared facilities services; and customer service and support. Each allocation measured differently based the specific facts and circumstances the costs being allocated. Certain other corporate-level activity not allocated our segments, including costs : broad-based sales and marketing; product support services; human resources; legal; finance; information technology; corporate development and procurement activities; research and development; legal settlements and contingencies; and employee severance. have recast certain prior period amounts within this note conform the way internally managed and monitored segment performance during the current fiscal year, including moving Microsoft\x92 hardware business from Entertainment and Devices Division Windows & Windows Live Division, Windows Embedded from Entertainment and Devices Division Server and Tools, and Office for Mac from Entertainment and Devices Division Microsoft Business Division, well implementing intersegment cost allocations between all segments related the collaborative investment mobile platform development. The principal products and services provided each segment are summarized below: Windows & Windows Live Division \x96 Windows & Windows Live Division offerings consist multiple editions the Windows operating system, software and services through Windows Live, and Microsoft hardware products. Server and Tools \x96 Server and Tools product and service offerings include Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Azure, Windows Embedded device platforms, and Enterprise Services. Enterprise Services comprise Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Online Services Division \x96 Online Services Division offerings include Bing, MSN, and advertiser tools. Microsoft Business Division \x96 Microsoft Business Division offerings include Microsoft Office, SharePoint, Exchange, Lync, and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Entertainment and Devices Division \x96 Entertainment and Devices Division offerings include the Xbox entertainment platform, including Kinect for Xbox , Mediaroom (our Internet protocol television software), and Windows Phone. PART Item Segment revenue and operating income (loss) were follows during the periods presented: ( millions) Year Ended June , Revenue Windows & Windows Live Division $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Division , , , Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division , , , Unallocated and other Consolidated $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Year Ended June , Operating Income (Loss) Windows & Windows Live Division $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Division ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division , Reconciling amounts ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Reconciling amounts the tables above and below include adjustments conform our internal accounting policies . GAAP and corporate-level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, depreciation, and amortization stock-based awards. Significant reconciling items were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Corporate-level activity ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense Revenue reconciling amounts Other ( ) ( ) Total $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Corporate-level activity excludes stock-based compensation expense and revenue reconciling amounts presented separately those line items. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year , , revenue. Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which our customers are located, was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes shipments customers the . and licensing certain OEMs and multinational organizations. PART Item Revenue from external customers, classified significant product and service offerings were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Microsoft Office system $ , $ , $ , Windows operating systems , , , Server products and tools , , , Xbox platform , , , Consulting and product support services , , , Advertising , , , Other , , , Total $ , $ , $ , Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments and deferred taxes, classified the location the controlling statutory company, were follows: ( millions) June , United States $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , PART Item NOTE \x97 QUARTERLY INFORMATION (Unaudited) ( millions, except per share amounts) Quarter Ended September December March June Total Fiscal Year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal Year Revenue $ , ( ) $ , ( ) $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Includes partial settlement . audit tax years , which increased net income $ million. ( ) Reflects effective tax rate % due mainly the adjustment our previously estimated effective tax rate for the year reflect the actual full year mix foreign and . taxable income. addition, upon completion our annual domestic and foreign tax returns, adjusted the estimated tax provision reflect the tax returns filed and recorded income tax benefit which lowered our effective tax rate. ( ) Reflects $ billion revenue recognized for sales Windows Vista with guarantee upgraded Windows minimal cost and Windows original equipment manufacturers and retailers before general availability (the \x93Windows Deferral\x94). ( ) Reflects $ billion revenue deferred future periods relating the Windows Deferral. PART Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PART Item , ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures required Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. REPORT MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control over financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability our financial reporting for external purposes accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary for preparation our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures company assets are made accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use disposition company assets that could have material effect our financial statements would prevented detected timely basis. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting not intended provide absolute assurance that misstatement our financial statements would prevented detected. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Based this evaluation, management concluded that the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was effective June , . There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited our internal control over financial reporting June , ; their report included Item . PART Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the internal control over financial reporting Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. The Company\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting, included the accompanying Report Management Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed , under the supervision , the company\x92 principal executive and principal financial officers, persons performing similar functions, and effected the company\x92 board directors, management, and other personnel provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because the inherent limitations internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility collusion improper management override controls, material misstatements due error fraud may not prevented detected timely basis. Also, projections any evaluation the effectiveness the internal control over financial reporting future periods are subject the risk that the controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, the Company maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and for the year ended June , , the Company and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion those financial statements. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PART , III Item , , , , , ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE list our executive officers and biographical information appears Part , Item this Form - . Information about our directors may found under the caption \x93Our Director Nominees\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Information about our Audit Committee may found under the caption \x93Board Committees\x94 the Proxy Statement. That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our Web site www microsoft com investor CorporateGovernance BoardofDirectors Contacts MSFinanceCode aspx. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature the amendment waiver that Web site report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Director Compensation,\x94 \x93Named Executive Officer Compensation,\x94 \x93Compensation Committee Report,\x94 and \x93Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 and \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information set forth the Proxy Statement under the captions \x93Director Independence\x94 and \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the headings \x93Fees Billed Deloitte & Touche\x94 and \x93Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services Independent Auditor\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PART Item PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Form - , indexed below. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they either are not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. Index Financial Statements Page ( ) Exhibit Listing Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation - Bylaws Microsoft Corporation - Form Indenture between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee (\x93Base Indenture\x94) -ASR Form First Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Base Indenture - Indenture, dated June , , between Microsoft Corporation and the Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - Form Global Note representing the Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Notes due - Form Second Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated September , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date Third Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated February , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan * Form Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the January , June , performance period - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the July , June , performance period - * Form Stock Option Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - Officers\x92 Indemnification Trust Agreement between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, trustee - Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, trustee - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the fiscal year performance period - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the fiscal year performance period - * Executive Officer Incentive Plan - * Form Executive Officer Incentive Plan Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Annual Performance Bonus Plan for Executive Officers - Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges Subsidiaries Registrant Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act INS** XBRL Instance Document SCH** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema CAL** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase DEF** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase LAB** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase PRE** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement ** Pursuant Rule 406T Regulation - , these interactive data files are deemed not filed part registration statement prospectus for purposes Sections the Securities Act Section the Securities Exchange Act and otherwise are not subject liability. ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}