{'item 1. ': 'Business This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based expectations, estimates, and projections the date this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See Item Part \x97\x93Risk Factors.\x94 Amazon com, Inc. was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated the state Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. completed our initial public offering May and our common stock listed the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 used herein, \x93Amazon com,\x94 \x93 ,\x94 \x93our\x94 and similar terms include Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. General Amazon com, Fortune company, opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July . offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and seek Earth\x92 most customer-centric company for three primary customer sets: consumer customers, seller customers and developer customers. addition, generate revenue through -branded credit card agreements and other marketing and promotional services, such online advertising. have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Segment Information.\x94 See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Results Operations\x97Supplemental Information\x94 for supplemental information about our net sales. Consumer Customers serve consumer customers through our retail websites, which include www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www shopbop com , www endless com and the Joyo Amazon websites www joyo and www amazon . seek enable our consumer customers find and discover anything they might want buy online, and endeavor offer the lowest possible prices. source and sell broad range products worldwide across dozens product categories, including digital media. also design, manufacture, market and sell wireless -reading device, the Amazon Kindle. Our customer-facing businesses relentlessly focus customer experience offering wide selection merchandise, low prices, and convenience. Selection endeavor provide the widest possible selection for customers worldwide, while continuing focus -stock inventory availability. have designed our websites enable millions unique products sold and third parties across dozens product categories, such : \x95 Books \x95 Electronics & Computers \x95 Toys, Kids & Baby \x95 Sports & Outdoors \x95 Movies, Music & Games \x95 Home & Garden \x95 Apparel, Shoes & Jewelry \x95 Tools, Auto & Industrial \x95 Digital Downloads \x95 Grocery \x95 Health & Beauty Price endeavor offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and free shipping offers. also strive improve our operating efficiencies that can continue lower prices for our customers. enable sellers offer their products our sites, many instances alongside our product selection, and set their own retail prices. Convenience Our software engineers, computer scientists, merchandisers, and management team focus continuous innovation enhance convenience. work earn repeat purchases providing easy- -use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, timely customer service, feature-rich and authoritative content, and trusted transaction environment. Key features our websites include editorial and customer reviews; manufacturer product information; gift guides; Web pages tailored individual preferences, such recommendations and notifications; -Click technology; secure payment systems; digital content; searching; browsing; and the ability view selected interior pages and citations, and search the entire contents many the books offer with our \x93Search Inside the Book\x94 feature. Our community online customers also creates feature-rich content, including product reviews, online recommendation lists, wish lists, image uploads, video reviews, buying guides, customer discussions, and wedding and baby registries. endeavor fulfill customer orders quickly and accurately, and provide intuitive self-service features that assist our customers when they have questions. communicate our fulfillment promise several ways, such presenting - -date inventory availability information, delivery date estimates, and options for expedited delivery, well delivery shipment notifications. Customers can use the \x93Your Account\x94 website features track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel items not yet shipped, change delivery instructions and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options, and return items. Additionally, when customers have questions, provide email address and phone number contact customer service directly and intuitive click- -call feature our help pages customers can quickly and conveniently speak with customer service representative. fulfill customer orders number ways, including through the . and international fulfillment centers and warehouses that operate; through fulfillment centers operated under -sourcing arrangements, including our fulfillment center supporting www amazon ; through outsourced fulfillment providers, including our fulfillment providers supporting www amazon ; and through fulfillment arrangements with other sellers. operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented several -sourcing customer service arrangements with third parties. See Item Part , \x93Properties,\x94 for additional information about fulfillment centers and customer service locations. Marketing and Promotion Our marketing strategy designed increase customer traffic our websites, drive awareness products and services offer, promote repeat purchases, develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities, and strengthen and broaden the Amazon com brand name. believe our most effective marketing efforts result from our focus continuously improving the customer experience, which drives word- -mouth promotion and repeat customer visits. also deliver personalized Web pages and services and employ variety media, business development activities, and promotional methods. employ various means advertising, which consist primarily online advertising, including through our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, -mail campaigns, and other initiatives. Our Associates program directs customers our websites enabling independent websites make millions products available their audiences with fulfillment performed third parties. pay commissions participants our Associates program for click-through customer referrals and customer referrals resulting product sales, subject the terms the specific commission agreement. offer everyday free shipping options worldwide. also offer Amazon Prime, membership program which members receive free discounted express shipping, the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan. Although marketing expenses not include the costs our free shipping promotional offers, view such offers effective marketing tools. Seller Customers Through Amazon Services, offer programs that enable seller customers sell their products our websites and fulfill orders through , allow consumer customers shop for products owned sellers using our features and technologies, and allow individual customers complete transactions that include multiple sellers single checkout process. are not the seller record these transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. Our seller programs serve individuals, small businesses, and large branded businesses, enabling them offer their new and used products for sale our websites alongside our products and products made available other sellers. also offer fulfillment-related services sellers through Fulfillment Amazon. addition, Amazon Enterprise Solutions offers sellers -commerce expertise, proven technology, and operational infrastructure enable -commerce businesses operating under their own brand name and website address ( . www target com ). Developer Customers serve developer customers through Amazon Web Services, which provides access technology infrastructure that developers can use enable virtually any type business. These services include: \x95 Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon ), which provides simple web services interface for storing and retrieving data from anywhere the web; \x95 Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), which provides scalable and down virtual computing environment, allowing developers use web service interfaces requisition machines for use and load them with their custom application environment, making web-scale computing easier for developers; \x95 Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS), which offers reliable, highly scalable hosted queue for storing messages they travel between computers; \x95 Amazon SimpleDB, which provides web service create and store multiple data sets, query data easily, and return the results; \x95 Amazon Flexible Payments Service (Amazon FPS), which provides payments service designed specifically for developers, providing greater flexibility the movement money; \x95 Amazon Mechanical Turk, which provides web service for computers integrate network humans directly into their processes; and \x95 Alexa\x92 Web Services, which offer platform for creating innovative web solutions and services based Alexa\x92 vast repository information about the web. Competition Our market segments are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our current and potential competitors include: ( ) physical-world retailers, publishers, vendors, distributors, manufacturers and producers our products; ( ) other online -commerce and mobile -commerce sites, including sites that sell distribute digital content; ( ) number indirect competitors, including media companies, Web portals, comparison shopping websites, and Web search engines, either directly collaboration with other retailers; ( ) companies that provide -commerce services, including website development; fulfillment and customer service; ( ) companies that provide infrastructure web services other information storage computing services products; and ( ) companies that design, manufacture, market sell digital media devices. believe that the principal competitive factors our retail market segments include selection, price, availability, convenience, information, discovery, brand recognition, personalized services, accessibility, customer service, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use, and ability adapt changing conditions, well our customers\x92 overall experience and trust transactions with and facilitated behalf sellers. For our seller and web services, additional competitive factors include the quality our services and tools, the speed and reliability our services and our ability build technology infrastructure while remaining competitive with our services from cost perspective. Many our current potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources technology, fulfillment, and marketing. Other companies also may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others protect our proprietary rights. have registered number domain names and been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents, and copyrights . and foreign governmental authorities. also have applied for the registration other trademarks, service marks, domain names, and copyrights the . and internationally, and have filed . and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patents, technologies copyrighted materials, third parties. Seasonality Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December . Employees employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees December , . However, employment levels fluctuate due seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel supplement our workforce, particularly seasonal basis. Our employees are not represented labor union and consider our employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel our industry intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. believe that our future success will depend part our continued ability attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel. Available Information Our investor relations website www amazon com . make available this website under \x93Financial Documents,\x94 free charge, our annual reports Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and amendments those reports soon reasonably practicable after electronically file furnish such materials the . Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94). also make available this website under the heading \x93Corporate Governance\x94 our Code Business Conduct and Ethics. Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors February , : Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Jeffrey . Blackburn Senior Vice President, Business Development Sebastian . Gunningham Senior Vice President, Seller Services Andrew . Jassy Senior Vice President, Web Services Steven Kessel Senior Vice President, Worldwide Digital Media Marc . Onetto Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations Diego Piacentini Senior Vice President, International Retail Shelley . Reynolds Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer . Brian Valentine Senior Vice President, Ecommerce Platform Jeffrey . Wilke Senior Vice President, North America Retail . Michelle Wilson Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Jeffrey . Bezos. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President the Company from founding until June and again from October the present. Jeffrey . Blackburn. . Blackburn has served Senior Vice President, Business Development, since April . From June April , was Vice President, Business Development, from July June , was Vice President, European Customer Service and from November July , . Blackburn was Vice President, Operations Integration. Sebastian . Gunningham. . Gunningham has served Senior Vice President, Seller Services, since joining Amazon com March . Prior joining Amazon com, . Gunningham was President First Data Utilities from August February , following First Data\x92 acquisition Peace Software, Inc., where was Chief Executive Officer from February August and President and Chief Operating Officer from April March . From March February , served Vice President Enterprise Sales Apple, Inc. Andrew . Jassy. . Jassy has served Senior Vice President, Web Services, since April . From January April , was Vice President, Web Services, from August January , was Vice President, Associates and Web Services, and, from November August , was Vice President and Technical Assistant. Steven Kessel. . Kessel has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Digital Media, since April . From April April , was Vice President, Digital and, from July April , was Vice President, . Books, Music, Video and DVD. Marc . Onetto. . Onetto has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, since joining Amazon com December . Prior joining Amazon com, . Onetto was Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations, Solectron Corporation, electronics manufacturing and technology company, from June June , and, prior Solectron, held various positions , including Vice President, European Operations, Europe, from September June . Diego Piacentini. . Piacentini has served Senior Vice President, International Retail, since January . From November until December , . Piacentini served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing. Shelley . Reynolds. . Reynolds has served Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer since April . From February April , she was Vice President, Finance and Controller. Prior joining Amazon com, . Reynolds was partner Deloitte & Touche LLP since . Thomas . Szkutak. . Szkutak has served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since joining Amazon com October . . Brian Valentine. . Valentine has served Senior Vice President, Ecommerce Platform, since joining Amazon com September . Prior joining Amazon com, . Valentine held various positions with Microsoft Corporation, including Senior Vice President, Windows Core Operating System Division, from January September and Senior Vice President, Windows, from December January . Jeffrey . Wilke. . Wilke has served Senior Vice President, North America Retail, since January . From January until December , was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. . Michelle Wilson. . Wilson has served Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since June . From March until June , she was Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel, and Secretary. Board Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Tom . Alberg Managing Director, Madrona Venture Group John Seely Brown Visiting Scholar and Advisor the Provost, University Southern California . John Doerr General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers William . Gordon Executive Vice President and Chief Creative Officer, Electronic Arts, Inc. Myrtle . Potter Chief Executive Officer, Chapman Properties, Inc., and Consultant, Myrtle Potter and Company, LLC Thomas . Ryder Retired, Former Chairman, Reader\x92 Digest Association, Inc. Patricia . Stonesifer Chief Executive Officer, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following risk factors. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could materially adversely affected. addition, these risks are not the only ones face. Face Intense Competition Our market segments are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and have many competitors different industries, including retail, -commerce services, digital and web services. Many our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources technology, fulfillment, and marketing. Competition may intensify our competitors enter into business combinations alliances and established companies other market segments expand into our market segments. addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web services, and digital, may increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders -commerce inherently more competitive than other retail. Increased competition may reduce our sales and profits. Our Expansion Places Significant Strain our Management, Operational, Financial and Other Resources are rapidly and significantly expanding our global operations, including increasing our product and service offerings and scaling our infrastructure support our retail and services businesses. This expansion increases the complexity our business and places significant strain our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. may not able manage growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies and Geographic Regions Subjects Additional Business, Legal, Financial and Competitive Risks may have limited experience our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our new product service offerings, which include seller services, digital, web services and electronic devices. These offerings may present new and difficult technology challenges, and may subject claims customers these offerings experience service disruptions failures other quality issues. addition, our gross profits our newer activities may lower than our older activities, and may not successful enough these newer activities recoup our investments them. any this were occur, could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. May Experience Significant Fluctuations Our Operating Results and Growth Rate may not able accurately forecast our growth rate. base our expense levels and investment plans sales estimates. significant portion our expenses and investments fixed, and may not able adjust our spending quickly enough our sales are less than expected. Our revenue growth may not sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends the continued growth demand for the products and services offered our sellers, and our business affected general economic and business conditions worldwide. softening demand, whether caused changes customer preferences weakening the . global economies, may result decreased revenue growth. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due risks described elsewhere this section and the following: \x95 our ability retain and increase sales existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers\x92 demands; \x95 our ability expand our network sellers; \x95 our ability acquire merchandise, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; \x95 the introduction competitive websites, products, services, price decreases, improvements; \x95 changes usage the Internet and -commerce, including non- . markets; \x95 timing, effectiveness, and costs expansion and upgrades our systems and infrastructure; \x95 the success our geographic, service and product line expansions; \x95 the outcomes legal proceedings and claims; \x95 variations the mix products and services sell; \x95 variations our level merchandise and vendor returns; \x95 the extent which offer free shipping, continue reduce product prices worldwide, and provide additional benefits our customers; \x95 the extent which invest technology and content, fulfillment and other expense categories; \x95 increases the prices fuel and gasoline, well increases the prices other energy products and commodities like paper and packing supplies; \x95 the extent which operators the networks between our customers and our websites successfully charge fees grant our customers unimpaired and unconstrained access our online services; \x95 our ability collect amounts owed when they become due; \x95 the extent which use our services affected spyware, viruses, \x93phishing\x94 and other spam emails, \x93denial service\x94 attacks, data theft, computer intrusions and similar events; and \x95 terrorist attacks and armed hostilities. May Not Successful Our Efforts Expand into International Market Segments Our international activities are significant our revenues and profits, and plan further expand internationally. have relatively little experience operating these future market segments and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages otherwise succeed. costly establish, develop and maintain international operations and websites and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not profitable sustained basis. addition risks described elsewhere this section, our international sales and operations are subject number risks, including: \x95 local economic and political conditions; \x95 government regulation -commerce other online services and restrictive governmental actions (such trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs), nationalization and restrictions foreign ownership; \x95 restrictions sales distribution certain products services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services and content, including uncertainty result less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the distribution media products and enforcement intellectual property rights; \x95 import, export, other business licensing requirements; \x95 limitations the repatriation and investment funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; \x95 limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure; \x95 shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact cash flow; \x95 laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, privacy, network security, encryption, and restrictions pricing discounts; \x95 lower levels use the Internet; \x95 lower levels consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared the .; \x95 lower levels credit card usage and increased payment risk; \x95 difficulty staffing, developing and managing foreign operations result distance, language and cultural differences; \x95 different employee employer relationships and the existence workers\x92 councils and labor unions; \x95 laws and policies the . and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans and taxes; and \x95 geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. the international -commerce channel grows, competition will intensify. Local companies may have substantial competitive advantage because their greater understanding , and focus , the local customer, well their more established local brand names. may not able hire, train, retain, and manage required personnel, which may limit our international growth. , acquired Joyo com Limited, which organized under the laws the British Virgin Islands and through People\x92 Republic China (\x93PRC\x94) entity, provides technology and services for the Joyo Amazon websites www joyo and www amazon . The PRC regulates Joyo Amazon\x92 business through regulations and license requirements restricting ( ) foreign investment the Internet, retail and delivery sectors, ( ) Internet content and (iii) the sale media products. order meet local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, Joyo Amazon\x92 business operated PRC companies owned nominee shareholders who are PRC nationals. Although believe Joyo Amazon\x92 structure complies with existing PRC laws, involves unique risks. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation PRC laws and regulations, and possible that the PRC government will ultimately take view contrary ours. Joyo Amazon (including its subsidiary and affiliates) were found violation any existing future PRC laws regulations interpretations those laws and regulations were change, the business could subject fines and other financial penalties, have its licenses revoked forced shut down entirely. addition, Joyo Amazon were unable enforce its contractual relationships with respect management and control its business, might unable continue operate the business. Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Harmed not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, could significantly limit our ability meet customer demand. Because difficult predict demand, may not manage our facilities optimal way, which may result excess insufficient inventory warehousing, fulfillment, and distribution capacity. failure optimize inventory will increase our net shipping cost requiring long-zone partial shipments. Orders from several our websites are fulfilled primarily from single location, and have only limited ability reroute orders third parties for drop-shipping. and our -sourcers may unable adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers. continue add fulfillment and warehouse capability add new businesses with different fulfillment requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating becomes more challenging. the other businesses whose behalf perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product our fulfillment centers excess forecasts, may unable secure sufficient storage space and may unable optimize our fulfillment centers. There can assurance that will able operate our network effectively. rely limited number shipping companies deliver inventory and completed orders our customers. are not able negotiate acceptable terms with these companies they experience performance problems other difficulties, could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. addition, our ability receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders customers also may negatively affected inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts war terrorism, acts God and similar factors. Third parties either drop-ship otherwise fulfill increasing portion our customers\x92 orders, and are increasingly reliant the reliability, quality and future procurement their services. Under some our commercial agreements, maintain the inventory other companies, thereby increasing the complexity tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure properly handle such inventory the inability these other companies accurately forecast product demand would result unexpected costs and other harm our business and reputation. The Seasonality Our Business Places Increased Strain Our Operations expect disproportionate amount our net sales occur during our fourth quarter. not stock restock popular products sufficient amounts such that fail meet customer demand, could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory markdowns write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. may experience increase our net shipping cost due complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. too many customers access our websites within short period time due increased holiday demand, may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. addition, may unable adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service -sourcers may unable meet the seasonal demand. also face risks described elsewhere this Item relating fulfillment center optimization and inventory. generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount time necessary collect proceeds from our customers. result holiday sales, December each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than result cash flows provided used investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results corresponding increase accounts payable December . Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months the year, resulting corresponding decline our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships provide -commerce services other businesses, such through our marketplace programs, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, Website Amazon and Fulfillment Amazon program initiatives, well other commercial agreements, strategic alliances and business relationships. Under these agreements, provide technology, fulfillment and other services, well enable sellers offer products services through our websites and power their websites. These arrangements are complex and require substantial personnel and resource commitments , which may limit the agreements are able enter into and our ability integrate and deliver services under them. fail implement, maintain, and develop the components these commercial relationships, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, licensing third-party software, hardware, and content, and engaging third parties perform hosting and other services, these initiatives may not viable. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements partially dependent the volume the other company\x92 sales. Therefore, the other company\x92 offering not successful, the compensation receive may lower than expected the agreement may terminated. Moreover, may not able enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances favorable terms. also may subject claims from businesses which provide these services are unsuccessful implementing, maintaining developing these services. our commercial agreements terminate, may unable renew replace these agreements comparable terms, all. Some our agreements involve high margin services, such marketing and promotional agreements, and they expire they may replaced, all, agreements involving lower margin services. may the future enter into amendments less favorable terms encounter parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations , which could adversely affect our operating results. Our present and future -commerce services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 impairment other relationships; \x95 variability revenue and income from entering into, amending, terminating such agreements relationships; and \x95 difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments have acquired and invested number companies, and may acquire invest enter into joint ventures with additional companies. These transactions create risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 problems retaining key personnel; \x95 additional operating losses and expenses the businesses acquired which invested; \x95 the potential impairment amounts capitalized intangible assets part the acquisition; \x95 the potential impairment customer and other relationships the company acquired which invested our own customers result any integration operations; \x95 the difficulty incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and unanticipated expenses related such integration; \x95 the difficulty integrating new company\x92 accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems permit effective management, and the lack control such integration delayed not implemented; \x95 the difficulty implementing companies acquire the controls, procedures and policies appropriate for larger public company; \x95 potential unknown liabilities associated with company acquire which invest; and \x95 for foreign transactions, additional risks related the integration operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Finally, result future acquisitions mergers, might need issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related intangible assets, any which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our international websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. have expanded our international operations, our exposure exchange rate fluctuations has increased. addition, our % Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities due (\x93 % PEACS\x94) are denominated Euros and increases the Euro relative the . Dollar increase the . Dollar amount owe interest and principal the % PEACS. also hold cash equivalents and marketable securities primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. the . Dollar strengthens compared these currencies, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may materially less than expected and vice versa. The Loss Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business depend our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, CEO, and Chairman. not have \x93key person\x94 life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. System Interruption and the Lack Integration and Redundancy Our Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access our websites and the speed with which customer navigates and makes purchases our websites affect our net sales, operating results and the attractiveness our products and services. experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites unavailable slow respond and prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders providing services third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness our products and services. are unable continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and take other steps improve the efficiency our systems, could cause system interruptions delays and adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and communications systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts war terrorism, acts God, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, and similar events disruptions. Any these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss critical data, and could prevent from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which would make our product and service offerings less attractive. Our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not sufficient. addition, may have inadequate insurance coverage compensate for any related losses. Any these events could damage our reputation and expensive remedy. Have Significant Indebtedness have significant debt and may incur substantial additional debt the future. significant portion our future cash flow from operating activities may dedicated the payment interest and the repayment principal our indebtedness. There guarantee that will able meet our debt service obligations. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with our debt covenants, will default. addition, may not able refinance our debt terms acceptable , all. Our indebtedness could limit our ability obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions other purposes the future, needed; plan for, react , changes technology and our business and competition; and react the event economic downturn. Face Significant Inventory Risk addition risks described elsewhere this Item relating fulfillment center and inventory optimization and third parties, are exposed significant inventory risks that may adversely effect our operating results result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles, changes consumer tastes with respect our products and other factors. must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking under-stocking products manufacture and sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory components are ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling manufacturing new product, may difficult establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition certain types inventory components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels certain products, such consumer electronics, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. Any one the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. May Not Able Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights May Accused Infringing Intellectual Property Rights Third Parties regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, and others protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available. also may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon, diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. may not able discover determine the extent any unauthorized use our proprietary rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps take protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights prevent third parties from infringing misappropriating our proprietary rights. also cannot certain that others will not independently develop otherwise acquire equivalent superior technology other intellectual property rights. Other parties also may claim that infringe their proprietary rights. have been subject , and expect continue subject , claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement the intellectual property rights third parties. The ready availability damages, royalties and the potential for injunctive relief has increased the costs associated with the litigation and settlement patent infringement claims, especially those asserted third parties whose sole primary business assert such claims. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the payment damages. may need obtain licenses from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not available terms acceptable all. addition, may not able obtain utilize terms that are favorable , all, licenses other rights with respect intellectual property not own providing -commerce services other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. Our digital content offerings depend part effective digital rights management technology control access digital content. the digital rights management technology that use compromised otherwise malfunctions, could subject claims, and content providers may unwilling include their content our service. Have Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Highly Volatile have rapidly evolving business model. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly response , among other risks, the risks described elsewhere this Item , well : \x95 changes interest rates; \x95 conditions trends the Internet and the -commerce industry; \x95 quarterly variations operating results; \x95 fluctuations the stock market general and market prices for Internet-related companies particular; \x95 changes financial estimates securities analysts and recommendations securities analysts; \x95 changes our capital structure, including issuance additional debt equity the public; \x95 changes the valuation methodology , performance , other -commerce companies; and \x95 transactions our common stock major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. Volatility our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities and force increase our cash compensation employees grant larger stock awards than have historically, which could hurt our operating results reduce the percentage ownership our existing stockholders, both. Government Regulation the Internet and -commerce Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business are subject general business regulations and laws, well regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and -commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth the Internet online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision online payment services, unencumbered Internet access our services, the design and operation websites, and the characteristics and quality products and services. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, libel, and personal privacy apply the Internet and -commerce. Jurisdictions may regulate consumer- -consumer online businesses, including certain aspects our seller programs. Unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. Taxation Risks Could Subject Liability for Past Sales and Cause Our Future Sales Decrease not collect sales other taxes shipments most our goods into most states the . Under some our commercial agreements, the other company the seller record, and are obligated collect sales tax accordance with that company\x92 instructions. may enter into additional agreements requiring similar tax collection obligations. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion them, along with other aspects our evolving business, may result additional sales and other tax obligations. collect consumption tax (including value added tax, goods and services tax, and provincial sales tax) applicable goods and services sold that are ordered our international sites. One more states foreign countries may seek impose sales other tax collection obligations out- -jurisdiction -commerce companies. successful assertion one more states foreign countries that should collect sales other taxes the sale merchandise services could result substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business. Currently, . Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition obligations collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect sales made over the Internet. However, number states, well the . Congress, have been considering initiatives that could limit supersede the Supreme Court\x92 position regarding sales and use taxes Internet sales. any these initiatives were successful, could required collect sales and use taxes additional states. The imposition state and local governments various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for , put competitive disadvantage they not impose similar obligations all our online competitors and decrease our future sales. Could Subject Additional Income Tax Liabilities are subject income taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could adversely affected earnings being lower than anticipated countries where have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated countries where have higher statutory rates, changes the valuation our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. are subject audit various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against . Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results audit litigation could have material effect our operating results cash flows the period periods for which that determination made. Our Vendor Relationships Subject Number Risks have significant vendors that are important our sourcing, manufacturing and any related ongoing servicing merchandise and content. not have long-term arrangements with most our vendors guarantee availability merchandise, content, components services, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. our current vendors were stop selling merchandise, content, components services acceptable terms, may unable procure from other vendors timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms, all. May Subject Product Liability Claims People Property Are Harmed the Products Sell Some the products sell manufacture may expose product liability claims relating personal injury, death, property damage, and may require product recalls other actions. Certain third parties also sell products using our -commerce platform that may increase our exposure product liability claims, such these sellers not have sufficient protection from such claims. Although maintain liability insurance, cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our agreements with our vendors and sellers not indemnify from product liability. Are Subject Payments-Related Risks accept payments using variety methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts (including promotional financing), gift certificates, direct debit from customer\x92 bank account, physical bank check and payment upon delivery. offer new payment options our customers, may subject additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. rely third parties provide payment processing services, including the processing credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing, and could disrupt our business these companies become unwilling unable provide these services . are also subject payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change reinterpreted make difficult impossible for comply. fail comply with these rules requirements, may subject fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, facilitate other types online payments, and our business and operating results could adversely affected. also offer -branded credit card programs that represent significant component our services revenue and generate high margins. one more these agreements are terminated and are unable replace them similar terms, all, could adversely affect our operating results. addition, qualify money services business certain jurisdictions because enable customers keep account balances with and transfer money third parties, and because provide services third parties facilitate payments their behalf. these jurisdictions, may subject requirements for licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding, the handling transferred funds and consumer disclosures. are also subject voluntarily comply with number other laws and regulations relating money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security and electronic fund transfers. were found violation applicable laws regulations, could subject civil and criminal penalties forced cease our payments services business. Could Liable for Breaches Security Our Websites Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent payment transactions and other security breaches, failure prevent mitigate such fraud breaches may adversely affect our operating results. Could Liable for Fraudulent Unlawful Activities Sellers The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. addition, governmental agencies could require changes the way this business conducted. Under our seller programs, may unable prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered when the products received are materially different from the sellers\x92 descriptions. Under our A2Z Guarantee, reimburse buyers for payments certain limits these situations, and our marketplace seller sales grow, the cost this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. also may unable prevent sellers our sites through Amazon Enterprise Solutions, and certain other programs, from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods unlawful manner, violating the proprietary rights others, and could face civil criminal liability for unlawful activities our sellers. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties not own any real estate. December , , operated the following facilities: Description Use Square Footage ( ) Operating Segments Lease Expirations ( )( ) ( thousands) Corporate office facilities , North America From through Corporate office facilities International From through Sub-total , Fulfillment and warehouse operations ( ) , North America From through Fulfillment and warehouse operations , International From through Sub-total , Customer service and other North America From through Customer service and other International From through Sub-total Total , ( ) Represents the total leased space excluding sub-leased space. ( ) Most leases expiring have renewal features our option. ( ) Excludes facility operated under outsourced arrangement Canada. lease our corporate headquarters Seattle, Washington. also lease additional corporate office, fulfillment and warehouse operations, customer service, and other facilities throughout the United States, principally Arizona, California, Delaware, Florida, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. Outside the United States, also lease corporate office, fulfillment and warehouse operations, customer service, and other facilities, principally China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. believe our properties are suitable and adequate for our present needs, and periodically evaluate whether additional facilities are necessary. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies\x97Legal Proceedings.\x94 ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted for vote our shareholders during the fourth quarter . PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for our common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq Global Select Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Holders February , , there were , shareholders record our common stock, although there are much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases Equity Securities None. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\x94 and the information contained Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations.\x94 Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. Year Ended December , ( millions, except per share data) Income Statement: Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Income from operations Income before change accounting principle Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Net income Basic earnings per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ $ $ Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Basic earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ $ $ Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Diluted earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ $ Weighted average shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted Cash Flow Statement: Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ $ $ $ Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow ( ) $ , $ $ $ $ December , ( millions) Balance Sheet: Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt , , , , , ( ) For further discussion earnings per share, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) Free cash flow, non-GAAP financial measure, defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our consolidated statements cash flows. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Results Operations\x97Non-GAAP Financial Measures.\x94 ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\x92 current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, fluctuations foreign exchange rates, changes global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate growth the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon com invests new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, the extent which owe income taxes, competition, management growth, potential fluctuations operating results, international growth and expansion, outcomes legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks inventory management, seasonality, the degree which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , \x93Risk Factors,\x94 which, along with the previous discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. Overview Our primary source revenue the sale wide range products and services customers . The products offered our customer-facing websites primarily include merchandise and content have purchased for resale from vendors and products offered marketplace sellers. Generally, recognize gross revenue from items sell from our inventory and recognize our net share revenue items sold other sellers. also offer services such Amazon Web Services, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, -branded credit cards, fulfillment, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional offers. Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow per share. Free cash flow driven primarily increasing operating income and efficiently managing working capital and capital expenditures. Increases operating income primarily result from increases sales through our websites and efficiently managing our operating costs, offset investments make longer-term strategic initiatives, which generally require hire additional software engineers, computer scientists, and merchandisers. increase product sales, focus improving all aspects the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery times, increasing selection, increasing product categories, expanding product information, improving ease use, and earning customer trust. generally focus growing gross profit and operating profit dollars rather than maximizing margin percentages. also seek efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility issue shares for strategic purposes, such financings and aligning employee compensation with shareholders\x92 interests. utilize restricted stock units our primary vehicle for equity compensation because believe they align the interests our shareholders and employees. managing shareholder dilution, include all stock awards outstanding, without regard estimated forfeitures, consisting vested and unvested awards and -the-money Free cash flow, non-GAAP financial measure, defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our consolidated statements cash flows. See \x93Results Operations\x97Non-GAAP Financial Measures\x94 below. and out- -the-money stock options. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were million and million December , and . These amounts exclude million shares issuable upon conversion our long-term debt. , repurchased million shares our common stock under repurchase program authorized our Board Directors. seek reduce our variable costs per unit and work leverage our fixed costs. Our variable costs include product and content costs, payment processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, and most aspects our marketing costs. Our fixed costs include the costs necessary run our technology infrastructure, build, enhance, and add features our websites and build and optimize our fulfillment centers. Variable costs generally change directly with sales volume, while fixed costs generally increase depending the timing capacity needs, geographic expansion, category expansion, and other factors. decrease our variable costs per unit basis and enable lower prices for customers, seek increase our direct publisher and manufacturer sourcing, maximize discounts available from suppliers and reduce defects our processes. minimize growth fixed costs, seek improve process efficiencies and maintain lean culture. Because our model are able turn our inventory quickly and have cash-generating operating cycle . average, our high inventory velocity means generally collect from our customers before our payments suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was , , and for , , and . Inventory turnover has declined slightly over the last several years, primarily due category expansion and changes product mix, and our continuing focus -stock inventory availability. expect some variability inventory turnover over time since affected several factors, including our product mix, the mix sales and other sellers, our continuing focus -stock inventory availability, our investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent which choose utilize outsource fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days were , , and for , and . expect some variability accounts payable days over time since they are affected several factors, including the mix product sales, the mix sales other sellers, the mix suppliers, seasonality, and changes payment terms over time, including the effect balancing pricing and timing payment terms with suppliers. Our spending technology and content will increase add computer scientists, software engineers, and employees involved category expansion, editorial content, buying, merchandising selection, and systems support. will continue invest several areas technology and content, including seller platforms, web services, digital initiatives, and expansion new and existing product categories, well technology infrastructure enhance the customer experience, improve our process efficiencies and support our infrastructure web services. believe that advances technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost processing power, the improved customer experience the Internet outside the workplace through lower-cost broadband service the home, and the advances wireless connectivity, will continue improve the customer experience the Internet and increase its ubiquity people\x92 lives. Amazon Web Services provides technology services that give developers access technology infrastructure that they can use enable virtually any type business. Our challenge will continue build and deploy innovative and efficient software that will best take advantage continued advances technology. Our financial reporting currency the . Dollar and changes exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends . For example, the . Dollar weakens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales, gross profit, and operating expenses will The operating cycle number days sales inventory plus number days sales accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. Inventory turnover the quotient annualized cost sales average inventory over five quarters. Accounts payable days, calculated the quotient accounts payable cost sales, multiplied the number days the period. higher than currencies had remained constant. Likewise, the . Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales, gross profit, and operating expenses will lower than currencies had remained constant. believe that our increasing diversification beyond the . economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders over the long term. also believe important evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect currency changes. addition, the remeasurement our % PEACS and intercompany balances can result significant gains and charges associated with the effect movements currency exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact (either positively negatively) our reported results and consolidated trends and comparisons. For additional information about each line item summarized above, refer Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles the United States (\x93GAAP\x94) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company\x92 critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company\x92 financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Although believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, conditions. Revenue Recognition recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are the primary party obligated transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contracts that generally provide for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue our best estimate expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. Revenue from product sales and services rendered recorded net sales taxes. Amounts paid advance for subscription services, including amounts received for Amazon Prime and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized revenue over the subscription term. For our products with multiple elements, where standalone value for each element cannot established, recognize the revenue and related cost over the estimated economic life the product. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are classified offsetting amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from sellers and similar amounts earned through Amazon Enterprise Solutions are recognized when the item sold the seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. When are responsible for fulfillment-related services, commissions are recognized when risk loss and title transfer the customer. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. provide fulfillment-related services connection with certain our agreements. those arrangements, well other product sales other sellers, the seller maintains ownership the related products. such, these amounts are not included our consolidated balance sheets. Internal-Use Software and Website Development Included fixed assets the capitalized cost internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business. required Statement Position (SOP) - , \x93Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use,\x94 capitalize costs incurred during the application development stage internal-use software and amortize these costs over the estimated useful life two years. Costs incurred related design maintenance internal-use software are expensed incurred. Currency Effect Intercompany Balances Gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions are included net income. Stock-Based Compensation measure compensation cost for stock awards fair value and recognize compensation over the service period for awards expected vest. The fair value restricted stock and restricted stock units determined based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Since primarily issue restricted stock units our employees, the complexity valuation issues for stock compensation greatly reduced. The estimation stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results and future estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. utilize the accelerated method, rather than straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. Under this method, over % the compensation cost would expensed the first year four year vesting term. The accelerated method also adds level complexity estimating forfeitures. forfeited early the life award, the forfeited amount much greater under accelerated method than under straight-line method. Income Taxes are subject income taxes both the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based estimates whether, and the extent which, additional taxes will due. These reserves for tax contingencies are established when believe that certain positions might challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. adjust these reserves light changing facts and circumstances, such the outcome tax audit. The provision for income taxes includes the impact reserve provisions and changes reserves that are considered appropriate. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. The majority our gross deferred tax assets relate net operating loss carryforwards that related differences stock-based compensation between the financial statements and our tax returns. Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Income Taxes, requires that deferred tax assets evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations future taxable income taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. accordance with the provisions SFAS . , allocate our valuation allowance current and long-term deferred tax assets pro-rata basis. determine that additional portions our deferred tax assets are realizable the majority the benefit will come from the assets associated with the stock-based compensation that was not recognized the financial statements but was claimed the tax return. Since this compensation did not originally run through our consolidated statements operations, the benefit generated will recorded stockholders\x92 equity. Effective January , , adopted the provisions FASB Interpretation (FIN) . , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes\x97 interpretation FASB Statement . . FIN contains two-step approach recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for accordance with SFAS . . The first step evaluate the tax position for recognition determining the weight available evidence indicates more likely than not that the position will sustained audit, including resolution related appeals litigation processes, any. The second step measure the tax benefit the largest amount which more than % likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately anticipate actual outcomes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements September , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Fair Value Measurements , which defines fair value, establishes framework for measuring fair value accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS . effective for fiscal years beginning after November , , and interim periods within those fiscal years. not expect the adoption SFAS . have material impact our consolidated financial statements. The FASB may delay portion this standard. February , the FASB issued SFAS . , The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . SFAS . permits companies choose measure many financial instruments and certain other items fair value. SFAS . effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November , . not expect the adoption SFAS . have material impact our consolidated financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . ( ), Business Combinations , and SFAS . , Noncontrolling Interests Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS . ( ) requires acquirer measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest the acquiree their fair values the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. SFAS . clarifies that noncontrolling interest subsidiary should reported equity the consolidated financial statements. The calculation earnings per share will continue based income amounts attributable the parent. SFAS . ( ) and SFAS . are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December , . Early adoption prohibited. have not yet determined the effect our consolidated financial statements, any, upon adoption SFAS . ( ) SFAS . . Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Cash provided (used ): Operating activities $ , $ $ Investing activities ( ) ( ) Financing activities ( ) ( ) Free cash flow, non-GAAP financial measure, was $ billion for , compared $ million and $ million for and . See \x93Results Operations\x97Non-GAAP Financial Measures\x94 below for reconciliation free cash flow cash provided operating activities. The increase free cash flow primarily resulted from the increased growth rate our revenue and gross profit relative operating expenses. The decrease free cash flow was primarily driven our increased expenditure technology and content and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation deductions now classified financing cash flows. Free cash flow for included the effect our payment $ million patent litigation settlement. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can volatile and are sensitive many factors, including changes working capital, and the timing and magnitude capital expenditures. Working capital any specific point time subject many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, fair value, were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion December , , and . Amounts held foreign currencies were $ billion, $ million, and $ million December , , , and and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided operating activities was $ billion, $ million, and $ million , , and . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers, from sellers, and from non-retail activities such our -branded credit card agreements, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, offset cash payments make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized pursuant SOP - that are reflected cash used investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from customers, sellers, developers, and other activities generally corresponds our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards buy from , our receivables from customers settle quickly. Cash provided (used ) investing activities corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities marketable securities, cash outlays for acquisitions and intellectual property rights, and purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development costs. Cash provided (used ) investing activities was $ million, $( ) million, and $( ) million , , and , with the variability caused primarily purchases, maturities, and sales marketable securities. Capital expenditures were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investments technology infrastructure, fulfillment-related assets and the development new features and product offerings our websites. Capital expenditures included $ million, $ million and $ million for internal-use software and website development during , and . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. made payments for the acquisition certain companies and intellectual property rights, resulting cash payments, net acquired cash, $ million, $ million, and $ million , and attributable cash provided investing activities. Cash provided (used ) financing activities was $ million, $( ) million, and $( ) million , , and . Cash outflows from financing activities result from repurchases common stock, repayments long-term debt, and payments capital lease obligations. repurchased million shares common stock for $ million , and million shares common stock for $ million , under $ million repurchase program authorized our Board Directors . Repayments long-term debt and payments capital lease obligations were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Repayments long-term debt include \x80 million and \x80 million our % PEACS for $ million and $ million and . See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt.\x94 Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions and exercises employee stock options. SFAS . ( ), Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , requires tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions presented financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related stock-based compensation deductions were $ million, $ million and $ million , , and . Cash inflows from proceeds from exercise employee stock options were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . expect cash proceeds from exercises stock options will decline over time continue issuing restricted stock units our primary vehicle for stock-based awards. , and recorded net tax provisions $ million, $ million, and $ million. majority this provision non-cash. have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized reduce our . taxable income. such, cash taxes paid were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . endeavor optimize our global taxes cash basis, rather than financial reporting basis. February , our Board Directors authorized debt repurchase program, replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization its entirety, pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem, otherwise retire all our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % Convertible Subordinated Notes\x94) and % PEACS. The outstanding principal our % Convertible Subordinated Notes this authorization was $ million, and the outstanding principal amount our % PEACS was \x80 million. August , our Board Directors authorized -month program repurchase $ million our common stock, pursuant which repurchased $ million and $ million our common stock and , respectively. April , our Board authorized new -month program repurchase $ million our common stock, which was replaced February -month program repurchase $ billion our common stock. Since our % PEACS, which are due , are denominated Euros, our . Dollar equivalent interest payments and principal obligations fluctuate with the Euro . Dollar exchange rate. result, any fluctuations the exchange rate will have effect our interest expense and, the extent make principal payments, the amount . Dollar equivalents necessary for principal settlement. Additionally, since our interest payable our % PEACS due Euros, the balance interest payable subject gains losses currency movements until the date the interest payment. Gains losses the remeasurement our Euro-denominated interest payable are classified \x93Other income (expense), net\x94 our consolidated statements operations. average, our high inventory velocity means collect from our customers before our payments suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was , , and for , , and . Inventory turnover has declined slightly over the last several years, primarily due category expansion and changes product mix, and our continuing focus -stock inventory availability, which enables faster delivery products our customers. expect some variability inventory turnover over time affected several factors, including our product mix, the mix sales and other sellers, our continuing focus -stock inventory availability, our investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent which choose utilize outsource fulfillment providers. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments December , : Thereafter Total ( millions) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal ( ) $ $ $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Debt interest ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Capital leases, including interest Operating leases Other commitments ( )( ) Purchase obligations ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total commitments $ $ , $ $ $ $ $ , ( ) December , , the Euro . Dollar exchange rate was . Due changes the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, our remaining principal debt obligation under the % PEACS since issuance February has increased $ million December , . The principal and interest commitments reflect the partial redemptions the % PEACS and % Convertible Subordinated Notes. ( ) Includes the estimated timing and amounts payments for rent, operating expenses, and tenant improvements associated with approximately , square feet corporate office space Seattle, Washington. also have the right occupy additional approximately , square feet subject termination fee, estimated approximately $ million, not elect occupy this additional space. The amount space available and our financial and other obligations under the lease agreements are affected various factors, including government approvals and permits, interest rates, development costs and other expenses and our exercise certain rights under the lease agreements. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies\x97Commitments.\x94 ( ) Includes commitments acquire intellectual property and unrecognized tax benefits under FIN , but excludes $ million such unrecognized tax benefits for which cannot make reasonably reliable estimate the amount and period payment. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Income Taxes.\x94 ( ) Consists legally-binding commitments purchase inventory and significant non-inventory commitments. January closed entered into agreements, subject regulatory approvals and other conditions, acquire invest certain companies. These acquisitions and investments result aggregate cash payments approximately $ million, net cash acquired. Pledged Securities are required pledge otherwise restrict portion our cash and marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions twelve months longer non-current \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. The balance pledged securities December , consisted $ million \x93Cash and cash equivalents\x94 and \x93Marketable securities,\x94 and $ million \x93Other assets.\x94 The amount required pledged for certain real estate lease agreements changes over the life our leases based our credit rating and changes our market capitalization (common shares outstanding multiplied the closing price our common stock). Information about collateral required pledged under these agreements follows: Standby and Trade Letters Credit and Guarantees Debt ( ) Real Estate Leases ( ) Total ( millions) Balance December , $ $ $ $ Net change collateral pledged ( ) Balance December , $ $ $ $ ( ) Represents collateral for certain debt related our international operations. ( ) December , , our market capitalization was $ billion. The required amount collateral pledged will increase $ million our market capitalization equal below $ billion and additional $ million our market capitalization equal below $ billion. believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Risk Factors.\x94 continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, repurchase, refinance, otherwise restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities would likely dilutive our shareholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition , investment , complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that additional lines- -credit financing instruments will available amounts terms acceptable , all. Results Operations have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. Net Sales and Gross Profit Net sales information follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Net Sales: North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America % % % International Consolidated Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding effect exchange rates: North America % % % International Consolidated Net Sales Mix: North America % % % International Consolidated % % % Revenue increased % , reflecting revenue growth both our North America and International segments. Additionally, changes currency exchange rates positively affected net sales $ million for . For discussion the effect revenue growth exchange rates, see \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 below. The North America revenue growth rate was % . This revenue growth primarily reflects increased unit sales driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime, larger base sales faster growing categories such electronics and other general merchandise, increased -stock inventory availability, and increased selection product offerings. The International revenue growth rate was % . This revenue growth reflects increased unit sales driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers, larger base sales faster growing categories such electronics and other general merchandise, increased -stock inventory availability, and increased selection product offerings. Additionally, changes currency exchange rates positively affected International net sales $ million . expect that, over time, our International segment will represent % more our consolidated net sales. Additionally, continue offer increased selection, lower prices, and additional product lines within our electronics and other general merchandise category, expect see the relative mix sales from this category increase. See \x93Supplemental Information\x94 below. Gross profit information follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Gross Profit: North America $ , $ , $ , International , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Gross Profit Growth Rate: North America % % % International Consolidated Gross Margin: North America % % % International Consolidated The increase gross profit absolute terms during , compared and , corresponds with increases sales, offset lower prices for customers including from free shipping offers and Amazon Prime. Generally, our gross margins fluctuate based several factors, including our product, service, and geographic mix sales; sales volumes marketplace sellers; changes vendor pricing, including the extent which receive discounts and allowances; lowering prices for customers, including from competitive pricing decisions; improvements product sourcing and inventory management; and the extent which our customers accept our free shipping and Amazon Prime offers. Such free shipping and Amazon Prime offers reduce shipping revenue and reduce our gross margins retail sales. view our shipping offers effective worldwide marketing tool and intend continue offering them indefinitely. Sales products marketplace sellers our websites represented % unit sales , , and . Since revenues from these sales are recorded net amount, they generally result lower revenues but higher gross margin per unit. Since focus profit dollars rather than margins, are largely neutral whether item sold another seller. Gross profit growth also affected changes exchange rates\x97see \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 below. North America segment gross margins decreased basis points compared resulting primarily from our efforts continue reducing prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime, and larger percent overall sales lower margin categories such electronics. North America segment gross margins decreased basis points compared resulting primarily from changes our revenue mix, revenue our retail business grew faster than revenue from marketplace sellers. addition, sales from electronics and other general merchandise grew faster than sales from media and continued our efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime. International segment gross margins increased basis points compared resulting primarily from increases sales products marketplace sellers, offset partially our efforts continue reducing prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime, and larger percent overall sales lower margin categories such electronics. International segment gross margins decreased basis points compared resulting primarily from changes our revenue mix sales from electronics and other general merchandise grew faster than sales from media. Supplemental Information Supplemental information about shipping results follows: December , ( millions) Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue ( )( ) $ $ $ Outbound shipping costs ( , ) ( ) ( ) Net shipping cost $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue % % % Outbound shipping costs Net shipping cost Percent Net Sales: Shipping revenue % % % Outbound shipping costs ( ) ( ) ( ) Net shipping cost ( )% ( )% ( )% ( ) Excludes amounts earned shipping activities sellers where not provide the fulfillment service. ( ) Includes amounts earned from Amazon Prime membership and Fulfillment Amazon programs. believe that offering low prices our customers fundamental our future success. One way offer lower prices through free-shipping offers that result net cost delivering products, well through membership Amazon Prime. the extent our customers accept and use our free shipping offers increasing rate, including memberships Amazon Prime, our net cost shipping will increase. seek partially mitigate the costs lowering prices over time through achieving higher sales volumes, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. Supplemental information about our net sales follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Net Sales: North America Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other ( ) Total North America $ , $ , $ , International Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , Other ( ) Total International $ , $ , $ , Consolidated Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other ( ) Total consolidated $ , $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total North America International Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total International Consolidated Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Excluding the effect exchange rates International Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total International Consolidated Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated % % % ( ) Includes non-retail activities, such Amazon Enterprise Solutions, our -branded credit card agreements, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional services. Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation follows ( millions): Year ended December , Year ended December , Year ended December , Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Operating Expenses: Fulfillment $ , $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Marketing ( ) ( ) ( ) Technology and content ( ) ( ) ( ) General and administrative ( ) ( ) ( ) Other operating expense \x97 \x97 \x97 Total operating expenses $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Fulfillment % % % % % % Marketing Technology and content General and administrative Percent Net Sales: Fulfillment % % % % % % Marketing Technology and content General and administrative Operating expenses without stock-based compensation are non-GAAP financial measures. See \x93Non-GAAP Financial Measures\x94 and Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Stock-Based Compensation.\x94 Fulfillment The increase fulfillment costs absolute dollars during comparison with the prior years relates variable costs corresponding with sales volume and inventory levels; our mix product sales; payment processing and related transaction costs, including mix payment methods and costs from our guarantee for certain marketplace seller transactions; and costs from expanding fulfillment capacity. Fulfillment costs percentage net sales may vary due several factors, such payment processing and related transaction costs, including those from our guarantee for certain seller transactions, our level productivity and accuracy, changes volume, size, and weight units received and fulfilled, the extent utilize fulfillment services provided third parties, and our ability affect customer service contacts per unit implementing improvements our operations and enhancements our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with seller transactions are based the gross purchase price underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs are higher percentage revenue versus our retail sales, our sales our sellers have higher fulfillment costs percent net sales. expanded our fulfillment capacity , , and through gains efficiencies and increases leased warehouse space. This expansion designed accommodate greater selection and -stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales our own products well sales third parties for which provide the fulfillment. Marketing direct customers our websites primarily through number targeted online marketing channels, such our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, -mail campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based growth sales and changes rates. the extent there increased decreased competition for these traffic sources, the extent our mix these channels shifts, would expect see corresponding change our marketing expense its effect. Marketing costs increased absolute dollars compared and , due increased spending variable online marketing channels, such our Associates program, sponsored search, and other variable marketing initiatives. While costs associated with free shipping are not included marketing expense, view free shipping offers and Amazon Prime effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content continue invest several areas technology and content including seller platforms, web services, and digital initiatives, well expansion new and existing product categories. are also investing technology infrastructure that can continue enhance the customer experience, improve our process efficiency and support our infrastructure web services. See \x93Overview\x94 above for discussion how management views advances technology and the importance innovation. The growth rate our technology and content spending decreased compared the prior year. intend continue investing areas technology and content continue add employees our staff and add technology infrastructure. For the years ended , , and , capitalized $ million, $ million, and $ million costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization previously capitalized amounts was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . significant majority our technology costs are incurred the . and most them are allocated our North America segment. General and Administrative The increase spending general and administrative compared and primarily due increases payroll and related expenses, and professional fees. Stock-Based Compensation January , , adopted SFAS . ( ), which requires measurement compensation cost for all stock-based awards fair value date grant and recognition compensation over the service period for awards expected vest. The fair value restricted stock and restricted stock units determined based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense over the service period, net estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results and future estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. The adoption SFAS . ( ) resulted cumulative benefit from accounting change $ million , which reflects the net cumulative impact estimating future forfeitures the determination period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur previously permitted. Stock-based compensation was $ million, $ million and $ million during , , and . The increase stock-based compensation primarily attributable increase total stock compensation value granted our employees. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net, was $ million and $ million during and , primarily attributable amortization other intangibles. Other operating expense, net, was $ million , primarily attributable our settlement patent lawsuit for $ million, well amortization other intangibles $ million. Income from Operations Income from operations was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and . The increase from primarily result the increased growth rate our revenue and gross profit relative operating expenses. The decrease from primarily result increase spending for technology and content. Interest Expense and Income The primary component our net interest expense the interest incur our long-term debt instruments, including $ million principal balance our % Convertible Subordinated Notes and \x80 million ($ million based the exchange rate December , ) principal balance our % PEACS December , . Interest expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , with declines primarily relating principal repayments $ million and $ million and . Our total long-term indebtedness was $ billion both December , and . See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt.\x94 Our interest income was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and . generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance invested funds and the prevailing rates are earning them, which vary depending the geographies and currencies which they are invested. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, was $( ) million, $( ) million, and $ million, , and , and consisted primarily gains and losses sales marketable securities, foreign-currency transaction gains and losses, and other miscellaneous losses. Foreign-currency transaction gains and losses primarily relate the interest payable our % PEACS, well foreign-currency gains and losses cross-currency investments. Since interest payments our % PEACS are settled Euros, the balance interest payable subject gains losses resulting from changes exchange rates between the . Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and payment. Remeasurements and Other Remeasurements and other consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( millions) Foreign-currency gain (loss) remeasurement % PEACS $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Loss redemption long-term debt \x97 ( ) ( ) Foreign-currency gain (loss) intercompany balances ( ) Other ( ) Total remeasurements and other $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Each period the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars results gains losses recorded \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. ( ) Represents the gains (losses) associated with the remeasurement intercompany balances due changes foreign exchange rates. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Foreign Currency.\x94 Income Taxes recorded provision for income taxes $ million, $ million, and $ million, , and . The effective tax rate was lower than the % . federal statutory rate primarily due earnings our subsidiaries outside the . jurisdictions where our effective tax rate lower than the . The effective tax rate was higher than the % . federal statutory rate resulting from establishment our European headquarters Luxembourg, which expect will benefit our effective tax rate over time. Associated with the establishment our European headquarters, transferred certain our operating assets and from the . international locations. These transfers resulted taxable income and exposure additional taxable income assertions taxing jurisdictions. Included the provision and reducing the impact the international restructure tax benefit $ million, resulting from certain our deferred tax assets becoming more likely than not realizable. This tax benefit represented $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share. expect our effective tax rate approximately %. However, our effective tax rate subject significant variation due several factors, including from accurately predicting our taxable income, the taxable jurisdictions which relates, and business acquisitions and investments. have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized reduce our . taxable income. such, expect majority our net tax provision non-cash. Effect Exchange Rates The effect our consolidated statements operations from changes exchange rates versus the . Dollar follows ( millions, except per share data): Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Net sales $ , $ $ , $ , $ $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Gross profit , , , , , ( ) , Operating expenses , , , , , ( ) , Income from operations ( ) ( ) Net interest income (expense) and other ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Remeasurements and other income (expense) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income ( ) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates the reported period been the same those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results, and did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our % PEACS and intercompany balances. ( ) Represents the increase decrease reported amounts resulting from changes exchange rates from those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results, and did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our % PEACS and intercompany balances. ( ) Includes foreign-currency gains and losses cross-currency investments. ( ) Includes foreign-currency gains and losses remeasurement % PEACS and intercompany balances. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation , Conditions for Use Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measure \x93Free cash flow\x94 meets the definition non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow used addition and conjunction with results presented accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not relied upon the exclusion GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects additional way viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides more complete understanding factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages shareholders review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports their entirety and not rely any single financial measure. Free cash flow, which reconcile \x93Net cash provided operating activities,\x94 cash flow from operations reduced \x93Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.\x94 use free cash flow, and ratios based , conduct and evaluate our business because, although similar cash flow from operations, believe more conservative measure cash flows since purchases fixed assets are necessary component ongoing operations. limited circumstances which proceeds from sales fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since not anticipate being net seller fixed assets, expect free cash flow less than operating cash flows. Free cash flow has limitations due the fact that does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made capital lease obligations cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, believe important view free cash flow complement our entire consolidated statements cash flows. The following reconciliation free cash flow the most comparable GAAP measure, \x93Net cash provided operating activities\x94 for , , and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ $ Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow $ , $ $ Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ $ ( ) $ ( ) addition, provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation. provide this information show the impact stock-based compensation, which non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement financial performance (although consider the dilutive impact our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation not allocated segment results and therefore excluding from operating expense consistent with our segment presentation our footnotes the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation have limitations due the fact that they not include all expenses primarily related our workforce. More specifically, did not pay out portion our compensation the form stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included the \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 and \x93General and administrative\x94 line items would higher. compensate for this limitation providing supplemental information about outstanding stock-based awards the footnotes our financial statements. Stock-based compensation programs are important element our compensation structure and all forms stock-based awards are valued and included appropriate results operations. Guidance The Company provided guidance January , its earnings release furnished Form - follows: First Quarter Guidance \x95 Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and % compared with first quarter . \x95 Operating income expected between $ million and $ million, grow between % and % compared with first quarter . This guidance includes $ million for stock-based compensation and amortization intangible assets, and assumes, among other things, that additional acquired intangible assets are recorded and that there are further revisions stock-based compensation estimates. Full Year Expectations \x95 Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and % compared with . \x95 Operating income expected between $ million and $ million, grow between % and % compared with . This guidance includes $ million for stock-based compensation and amortization intangible assets, and assumes, among other things, that additional acquired intangible assets are recorded and that there are further revisions stock-based compensation estimates. These projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Risk Factors.\x94 ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined market value due changes interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , ( millions, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Money market funds $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted average interest rate \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Corporate debt securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % . Government and Agency Securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Asset backed securities Weighted average interest rate % % % % % % % Foreign government and agency securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Other securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted average interest rate \x97 % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ $ $ $ $ $ , $ , The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , ( millions, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Money market funds $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate debt securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % . Government and Agency Securities Weighted average interest rate % % % % % % % Asset backed securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Foreign government and agency securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Other securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted average interest rate \x97 % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ $ $ $ $ $ , $ , December , , had long-term debt $ billion primarily associated with our % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS, which are due and . The fair value our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes was $ billion December , (outstanding principal $ million) and $ million (outstanding principal $ million) December , . The fair value the % PEACS was $ million December , (outstanding principal \x80 million), and $ million December , (outstanding principal \x80 million). Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from our International segment accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our international websites, well those relating www amazon (which included our North America segment), are denominated the functional currencies the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these websites the same the corresponding local currency. The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. For example, result fluctuations foreign exchange rates during , International segment revenues increased $ million comparison with the prior year. have foreign exchange risk related foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (\x93foreign funds\x94). Based the balance foreign funds December , $ billion, assumed %, %, and % negative currency movement would result fair value declines $ million, $ million, and $ million. All investments are classified \x93available for sale,\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities . Fluctuations fair value are recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 equity. have foreign exchange risk related our intercompany balances denominated foreign currency. Based the net intercompany balances December , $ million, assumed %, %, and % strengthening the . Dollar relation these foreign currencies would result losses $ million, $ million, and $ million, recorded \x93Remeasurements and other.\x94 have foreign exchange risk related our % PEACS, which have outstanding principal balance December , \x80 million ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ). Due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, which cannot predict, our remaining principal debt obligation under the % PEACS since issuance February has increased $ million December , . Based the outstanding % PEACS\x92 principal balance, assumed %, %, and % weakening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result additional losses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, recorded \x93Remeasurements and other.\x94 Additionally, have not hedged our interest payments under our % PEACS protect against exchange rate fluctuations. Assuming the . Dollar weakens against the Euro %, %, and % , would incur $ million, $ million, and $ million additional annual interest expense due solely fluctuations foreign exchange. See \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 for additional information the effect reported results changes exchange rates. Investment Risk December , , our recorded basis equity securities (including both publicly-traded and private companies) was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities,\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other assets.\x94 regularly review the carrying value our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that declines the fair value such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. The fair values our investments are subject significant fluctuations due volatility the stock market general, company-specific circumstances, and changes general economic conditions. Based the fair value the publicly-traded equity securities held December , $ million (recorded basis $ million), assumed %, %, and % adverse change market prices these securities would result corresponding decline total fair value approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item ( )( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation . Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes , effective January , . also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness Amazon com, Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / RNST & OUNG LLP Seattle, Washington February , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income Adjustments reconcile net income net cash from operating activities: Depreciation fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization Stock-based compensation Other operating expense, net Losses (gains) sales marketable securities, net ( ) ( ) Remeasurements and other ( ) ( ) Deferred income taxes ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts receivable, net and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable Accrued expenses and other Additions unearned revenue Amortization previously unearned revenue ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash provided operating activities , INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( ) ( ) ( ) Acquisitions, net cash acquired, and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Sales and maturities marketable securities and other investments , , Purchases marketable securities and other investments ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( ) ( ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from exercises stock options Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation Common stock repurchased ( ) ( ) \x97 Proceeds from long-term debt and other Repayments long-term debt and capital lease obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities ( ) ( ) Foreign-currency effect cash and cash equivalents ( ) Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , ( ) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , $ , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest $ $ $ Cash paid for income taxes Fixed assets acquired under capital leases and other financing arrangements Fixed assets acquired under build- -suit leases \x97 \x97 See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended December , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross profit , , , Operating expenses ( ): Fulfillment , Marketing Technology and content General and administrative Other operating expense, net Total operating expenses , , , Income from operations Interest income Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Remeasurements and other ( ) Total non-operating income (expense) ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes Provision for income taxes Income before cumulative effect change accounting principle Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 Net income $ $ $ Basic earnings per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 $ $ $ Weighted average shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted ( ) Includes stock-based compensation follows: Fulfillment $ $ $ Marketing Technology and content General and administrative See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except per share data) December , Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities Inventories , Accounts receivable, net and other Deferred tax assets Total current assets , , Fixed assets, net Deferred tax assets Goodwill Other assets Total assets $ , $ , \x92 Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt , , Other long-term liabilities Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 Issued and outstanding shares\x97none \x97 \x97 Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 , Issued shares\x97 and Outstanding shares\x97 and Treasury stock, cost ( ) ( ) Additional paid- capital , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) Accumulated deficit ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY ( millions) Common Stock Treasury Stock Additional Paid- Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Accumulated Deficit Total Stockholders\x92 Equity Shares Amount Balance January , $ \x97 $ , $ $ ( , ) $ ( ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Foreign currency translation losses, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Change unrealized gains available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Amortization unrealized loss terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Comprehensive income Exercise common stock options, net and vesting restricted stock \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balance December , \x97 , ( , ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Foreign currency translation losses, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Change unrealized losses available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Amortization unrealized loss terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Comprehensive income Exercise common stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Repurchase common stock ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balance December , ( ) , ( ) ( , ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Foreign currency translation losses, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Change unrealized losses available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Amortization unrealized loss terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Comprehensive income Change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Unrecognized excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Exercise common stock options and conversion debt \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Repurchase common stock ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balance December , $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( , ) $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97DESCRIPTION BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Fortune company, opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July and today offers Earth\x92 Biggest Selection. seek Earth\x92 most customer-centric company. Amazon com serves three primary customer sets: consumer customers, seller customers and developer customers. serve consumer customers through our retail websites, which include www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www shopbop com , www endless com, and the Joyo Amazon websites www joyo and www amazon . serve seller customers offering programs and services that enable them sell products our websites and operate their -commerce businesses under their own brand name and website address. serve developers offering suite web services that provide developer customers with direct access Amazon com\x92 robust technology platform order enable them build innovative applications their own. addition, generate revenue through -branded credit card agreements and other marketing and promotional services, such online advertising. have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See \x93Note \x97Segment Information.\x94 Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities (relating primarily the Joyo Amazon websites) which have variable interest. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , valuation investments, receivables valuation, sales returns, incentive discount offers, inventory valuation, depreciable lives fixed assets, internally-developed software, valuation acquired intangibles, income taxes, stock-based compensation, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect stock awards determined under the treasury stock method. Our convertible debt instruments are excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share their effect under the -converted method antidilutive. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The following table shows the calculation diluted shares ( millions): Year Ended December , Shares used computation basic earnings per share Total dilutive effect outstanding stock awards ( ) Shares used computation diluted earnings per share ( ) Calculated using the treasury stock method that assumes proceeds available reduce the dilutive affect outstanding stock awards, which include the exercise price stock options, the unrecognized deferred compensation stock awards, and assumed tax proceeds from excess stock-based compensation deductions. Treasury Stock account for treasury stock under the cost method and include treasury stock component stockholders\x92 equity. Business Acquisitions acquired certain companies during for aggregate cash purchase price $ million, including cash payments $ million and future cash payments $ million. also made principal payments $ million acquired debt connection with one these acquisitions. Additional cash consideration for these acquisitions contingent upon continued employment. This amount expensed compensation over the employment period and not included the purchase price. Acquired intangibles totaled $ million and have estimated useful lives between two and ten years. The excess purchase price over the fair value the net assets acquired was $ million and classified \x93Goodwill\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. acquired certain companies during for aggregate cash purchase price $ million, including cash paid $ million and $ million and , and additional cash payments $ million due . Acquired intangibles totaled $ million and have estimated useful lives between one and ten years. The excess purchase price over the fair value the net assets acquired was $ million and classified \x93Goodwill\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. , acquired certain companies for aggregate cash purchase price $ million. Acquired intangibles totaled $ million and have estimated useful lives between one and three years. The excess purchase price over the fair value the net assets acquired was $ million and classified \x93Goodwill\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. The results operations each the businesses acquired , , and have been included our consolidated results from each transaction closing date forward. The effect these acquisitions consolidated net sales and operating income during , , and was not significant. Cash and Cash Equivalents classify all highly liquid instruments, including money market funds that comply with Rule - the Investment Company Act , with remaining maturity three months less the time purchase cash equivalents. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. provide fulfillment-related services connection with certain our marketplace sellers and Amazon Enterprise Solutions programs. those arrangements, well all other product sales other sellers, the marketplace seller maintains ownership the related products. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Current Assets Included \x93Accounts receivable, net and other current assets\x94 are customer and vendor receivables, well prepaid expenses $ million and $ million December , and , representing advance payments for insurance, licenses, and other miscellaneous expenses. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts estimate losses receivables based known troubled accounts, any, and historical experience losses incurred. The allowance for doubtful accounts receivable was $ million and $ million December , and . Internal-use Software and Website Development Costs incurred develop software for internal use are required capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software accordance with Statement Position (SOP) - , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use. Costs related design maintenance internal-use software are expensed incurred. For the years ended , , and , capitalized $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), and $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation) costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization previously capitalized amounts was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Depreciation Fixed Assets Fixed assets include assets such furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, technology infrastructure, internal-use software and website development. Depreciation recorded straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two years less for assets such internal-use software, two three years for our technology infrastructure, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense generally classified within the corresponding operating expense categories our consolidated statements operations, and certain assets are amortized \x93Cost sales.\x94 Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations account for our lease agreements pursuant Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Leases , which categorizes leases their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. certain our lease agreements, may receive rent holidays and other incentives. recognize lease costs straight-line basis without regard deferred payment terms, such AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) rent holidays that defer the commencement date required payments. Additionally, incentives receive are treated reduction our costs over the term the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized cost and amortized over the lesser their expected useful life the life the lease, without assuming renewal features, any, are exercised. account for build- -suit lease arrangements accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) - , The Effect Lessee Involvement Asset Construction, the extent are involved the construction structural improvements prior commencement lease. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, establish assets and liabilities for the present value estimated future costs return certain our leased facilities their original condition. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted the future value the estimated restoration costs. Goodwill evaluate goodwill for impairment, minimum, annual basis and whenever events and changes circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not recoverable. Impairment goodwill tested the reporting unit level comparing the reporting unit\x92 carrying amount, including goodwill, the fair value the reporting unit. The fair values the reporting units are estimated using discounted projected cash flows. the carrying amount the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill considered impaired and second step performed measure the amount impairment loss, any. conduct our annual impairment test October each year, and have determined there impairment . There were events circumstances from the date our assessment through December , that would impact this assessment. December , and December , , approximately % and % our acquired goodwill was assigned our International segment, the majority which relates our acquisition Joyo com Limited. Other Assets Included \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related marketable securities restricted for longer than one year; intellectual property rights; certain equity investments; and intangible assets, net amortization. December , and , the cost basis and fair value marketable securities restricted for longer than one year was $ million and $ million, primarily attributable collateralization bank guarantees and debt related our international operations. December , , intellectual property rights were $ million; December , , these amounts were not significant. December , , and , equity investments were $ million and $ million. Other intangibles, net, included within \x93Other assets,\x94 were $ million and $ million December , and . Accumulated amortization was $ million and $ million December , and , which excludes the accumulated amortization fully-amortized intangibles. Amortization expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Amortization expense intangible assets over the next five years follows: $ million ; $ million ; $ million ; $ million ; $ million . The weighted-average amortization period five years based useful life assumptions between one and ten years. Investments The initial carrying cost our investments the price paid. Investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. classify our investments equity-method investees our consolidated balance AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) sheets \x93Other assets\x94 and our share the investees\x92 earnings losses \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Losses from equity-method investees were not significant for any period presented. All other equity investments consist investments for which not have the ability exercise significant influence. Under the cost method accounting, investments private companies are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, distributions earnings, and additional investments. For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, classify our equity investments available-for-sale and, accordingly, record these investments their fair values with unrealized gains and losses, net tax, included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 equity. generally invest our excess cash investment grade short intermediate term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Such investments are included \x93Cash and cash equivalents,\x94 \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 The weighted average method used determine the cost Euro-denominated securities sold, and the specific identification method used determine the cost all other securities. periodically evaluate whether declines fair values our investments below their cost are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration the unrealized loss well our ability and intent hold the investment until forecasted recovery occurs. Factors considered include quoted market prices, available; recent financial results and operating trends; other publicly available information; implied values from any recent purchase sales offers investee securities; other conditions that may affect the value our investments. December , , gross unrealized losses our marketable securities were $ million and were determined temporary based our assessment the qualitative and quantitative factors discussed above. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets may not recoverable. For long-lived assets used operations, impairment losses are only recorded the asset\x92 carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. measure the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including: management has committed plan sell the asset, the asset available for sale its immediate condition, and the sale probable within one year the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Assets held for sale were not significant December , . Accrued Expenses and Other Included \x93Accrued expenses and other\x94 December , and were liabilities $ million and $ million for unredeemed gift certificates. recognize revenue from gift certificate when customer AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) redeems . gift certificate not redeemed, recognize revenue when expires , for certificate without expiration date, when the likelihood its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from date issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments are received advance performing our service obligations and recognized over the service period. Current unearned revenue included \x93Accrued expenses and other\x94 and non-current unearned revenue included \x93Other long-term liabilities\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. Current unearned revenue was $ million and $ million December , and . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes. not provide for . taxes our undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries, totaling $ million December , , since intend invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside the . such amounts were repatriated, determination the amount . income taxes that would incurred not practicable due the complexities associated with this calculation. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. December , , our deferred tax assets, net deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance, were $ million, which includes $ million relating net operating loss carryforwards (\x93NOLs\x94) that were primarily attributed stock-based compensation. The majority our NOLs begin expire and thereafter. SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes, requires that deferred tax assets evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations future taxable income taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. accordance with SFAS . , allocate our valuation allowance current and long-term deferred tax assets pro-rata basis. Effective January , , adopted the provisions FASB Interpretation (FIN) . , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes\x97 Interpretation FASB Statement . . FIN contains two-step approach recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions (tax contingencies) accounted for accordance with SFAS . . The first step evaluate the tax position for recognition determining the weight available evidence indicates more likely than not that the position will sustained audit, including resolution related appeals litigation processes, any. The second step measure the tax benefit the largest amount which more than % likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. Adopting FIN increased long-term assets $ million, long-term liabilities $ million, accumulated deficit $ million and additional paid- capital $ million. These amounts include the associated federal benefit related unrecognized tax benefits, and interest and penalties which collectively are not material. January , , had $ million tax contingencies. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Revenue recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria outlined EITF Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are primarily obligated transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail sales customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Revenue from product sales and services rendered recorded net sales taxes. Amounts received advance for subscription services, including amounts received for Amazon Prime and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized revenue over the subscription term. For our products with multiple elements, where standalone value for each element cannot established, recognize the revenue and related cost over the estimated economic life the product. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from sellers and similar amounts earned through Amazon Enterprise Solutions are recognized when the item sold seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. Shipping Activities Outbound shipping charges customers are included \x93Net sales\x94 and were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Outbound shipping-related costs are included \x93Cost sales\x94 and totaled $ billion, $ million, and $ million for , , and . The net cost shipping activities was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , and . Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products and content sold , inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies, and costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) customer service centers behalf other businesses. Shipping charges receive products from our suppliers are included our inventory, and recognized \x93Cost sales\x94 upon sale products our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified \x93Fulfillment\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Vendor Agreements have agreements receive cash consideration from certain our vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. generally presume amounts received from our vendors are reduction the prices pay for their products and, therefore, reflect such amounts either reduction \x93Cost sales\x94 our consolidated statements operations, , the product inventory still hand, reduction the carrying value inventory. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. evaluate the likelihood reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can reasonably estimated, record portion the rebate make progress towards the purchase threshold. When receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred advertising the vendor\x92 product service, the amount receive recorded offset \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third parties that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain our fulfillment-related costs that are incurred behalf other businesses, such Target Corporation, are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily online advertising, including through our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, -mail campaigns, and other initiatives. pay commissions participants our Associates program when their customer referrals result product sales and classify such costs \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors, and other third parties. the extent -operative marketing reimbursements decline future periods, may incur additional expenses continue certain promotions elect reduce discontinue them. Marketing expenses also consist public relations expenditures; payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, business development, and selling activities; and lesser extent, traditional advertising such newspaper inserts. Advertising and other promotional costs, which consist primarily online advertising, are expensed incurred, and were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant December , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for employees involved , application development, category expansion, editorial content, buying, merchandising selection, and systems support, well costs associated with the compute, storage and telecommunications infrastructure. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for employees involved general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human relations, among others; costs associated with use these functions facilities and equipment, such depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based Compensation January , , adopted SFAS . ( ), which requires measurement compensation cost for all stock-based awards fair value date grant and recognition compensation over the service period for awards expected vest. The fair value restricted stock and restricted stock units determined based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense over the service period, net estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results and future estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. Foreign Currency have the following internationally-focused websites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and services for the Joyo Amazon websites www joyo and www amazon . Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, well most the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated the functional currencies the resident countries. Additionally, the functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these international websites the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, and China. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 equity, and the \x93Foreign currency effect cash and cash equivalents,\x94 our consolidated statements cash flows. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved are included \x93Other income (expense), net\x94 our consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97Other Income (Expense), Net.\x94 Gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions are included net income. connection with the remeasurement intercompany balances, recorded gains $ million and $ million and , and loss $ million . Recent Accounting Pronouncements September , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Fair Value Measurements , which defines fair value, establishes framework for measuring fair value generally accepted AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS . effective for fiscal years beginning after November , , and interim periods within those fiscal years. not expect the adoption SFAS . have material impact our consolidated financial statements. The FASB may delay portion this standard. February , the FASB issued SFAS . , The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . SFAS . permits companies choose measure many financial instruments and certain other items fair value. SFAS . effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November , . not expect the adoption SFAS . have material impact our consolidated financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . ( ), Business Combinations , and SFAS . , Noncontrolling Interests Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS . ( ) requires acquirer measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest the acquiree their fair values the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. SFAS . clarifies that noncontrolling interest subsidiary should reported equity the consolidated financial statements. The calculation earnings per share will continue based income amounts attributable the parent. SFAS . ( ) and SFAS . are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December , . Early adoption prohibited. have not yet determined the effect our consolidated financial statements, any, upon adoption SFAS . ( ) SFAS . . Note \x97CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES measure our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities fair value based the quoted prices active markets. The following tables summarize, major security type, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities ( millions): December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses ( ) Estimated Fair Value Cash $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Money market funds , \x97 \x97 , Corporate debt securities ( ) . government and agency securities ( ) Asset-backed securities ( ) Foreign government and agency securities \x97 ( ) Equity securities \x97 Other securities \x97 \x97 Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , ( ) The fair value investments with loss positions was $ million. evaluated the nature these investments, which are primarily . Treasury Notes, the duration the impairments (substantially all less than twelve months), and concluded that such amounts were not \x93other-than-temporary.\x94 ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ billion, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses ( ) Estimated Fair Value Cash $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Money market funds \x97 \x97 Bank certificates deposits \x97 \x97 Corporate debt securities \x97 ( ) . government and agency securities ( ) Asset-backed securities \x97 ( ) Foreign government and agency securities \x97 ( ) Equity securities \x97 Other securities \x97 \x97 Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , ( ) The fair value investments with loss positions was $ million. evaluated the nature these investments, which are primarily . Treasury Notes, the duration the impairments (all less than twelve months), and the amount the impairments relative the underlying portfolio and concluded that such amounts were not \x93other-than-temporary.\x94 ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ million, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The following table summarizes contractual maturities our cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through five years $ , $ , Gross gains $ million, $ million, and $ million and gross losses $ million, $ million and $ million were realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities, including Euro-denominated securities, for , , and . are required pledge portion our cash equivalents marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations, line credit, and real estate lease agreements. See \x93Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consisted the following ( millions): December , Gross Fixed Assets: Fulfillment and customer service $ $ Technology infrastructure Internal-use software, content, and website development Construction progress ( ) \x97 Other corporate assets Gross fixed assets , Accumulated Depreciation: Fulfillment and customer service Technology infrastructure Internal-use software, content, and website development Other corporate assets Total accumulated depreciation Total fixed assets, net $ $ ( ) capitalize construction progress and record corresponding long-term liability for certain lease agreements related our Seattle, Washington corporate office space subject leases scheduled begin and . See \x93Note \x97Other Long-Term Liabilities\x94 and \x93Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies\x94 for further discussion. Depreciation expense fixed assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million, which includes amortization fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations $ million, $ million and $ million for , , and . Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $ million and $ million December , and . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $ million and $ million December , and . Note \x97LONG-TERM DEBT Our long-term debt summarized follows: December , ( millions) % Convertible Subordinated Notes due February $ $ % PEACS due February Other long-term debt , , Less current portion long-term debt ( ) ( ) $ , $ , % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into our common stock the holders\x92 option AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) conversion price $ per share. Total common stock issuable, December , , upon conversion our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes was million shares, which excluded from our calculation earnings per share its effect currently anti-dilutive. Interest the % Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future senior indebtedness defined the indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes. have the right redeem the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, whole part, paying the principal plus redemption premium, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. The redemption premium was % the principal December , , and decreased % February , and will decrease zero maturity February . Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants through December , . Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value our % Convertible Subordinated Notes December , and was $ billion and $ million. % PEACS February , completed offering \x80 million our % PEACS. The % PEACS are convertible, the holder\x92 option, into our common stock conversion price \x80 per share ($ , based the exchange rates December , ). Total common stock issuable, December , , upon conversion our outstanding % PEACS was million shares, which excluded from our calculation earnings per share its effect currently anti-dilutive. The . Dollar equivalent principal, interest, and conversion price fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. Interest the % PEACS payable annually arrears February each year. The % PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future senior indebtedness. The % PEACS rank equally with our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. have the right redeem the % PEACS, whole part, paying the principal, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. premium payment required for early redemption. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % PEACS, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % PEACS price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % PEACS contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants through December , . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) and , redeemed principal amounts \x80 million and \x80 million ($ million and $ million based the Euro . Dollar exchange rate the date redemption) our outstanding % PEACS. result these redemptions, and recorded charge classified \x93Remeasurements and other,\x94 approximately $ million and $ million related the redemption, consisting $ million and $ million unamortized deferred issuance charges and $ million and $ million relating unrealized losses our terminated currency swap that previously hedged portion our % PEACS. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million (outstanding principal \x80 million) December , and . Debt Repurchase Authorization February our Board Directors authorized debt repurchase program, replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization its entirety, pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem, otherwise retire aggregate all our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS. The outstanding principal our % Convertible Subordinated Notes this authorization was $ million, and the outstanding principal amount our % PEACS was \x80 million. Note \x97OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized follows: December , ( millions) Tax contingencies $ $ Long-term capital lease obligations Construction liability \x97 Other $ $ Tax Contingencies December , and , have provided tax reserves for tax contingencies approximately $ million and $ million for . and foreign income taxes, which primarily relate restructuring certain foreign operations and intercompany pricing between our subsidiaries. See \x93Note \x97Income Taxes\x94 for discussion tax contingencies. Capital Leases Certain our equipment fixed assets, primarily related technology, have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations were follows: December , ( millions) Gross capital lease obligations $ Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments Less current portion ( ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Construction Liability Related Seattle Campus capitalize construction progress and record corresponding long-term liability for certain lease agreements related our Seattle, Washington corporate office space subject leases scheduled begin and . accordance with EITF . - , for build- -suit lease arrangements where are involved the construction structural improvements prior the commencement the lease take some level construction risk, are considered the owner the assets during the construction period under generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, the landlord incurs the construction project costs, the assets and corresponding financial obligation are recorded \x93Fixed assets, net\x94 and \x93Other long-term liabilities\x94 our consolidated balance sheet. Once the construction completed, the lease meets certain \x93sale-leaseback\x94 criteria accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Leases , will remove the asset and related financial obligation from the balance sheet and treat the building lease operating lease. upon completion construction, the project does not meet the \x93sale-leaseback\x94 criteria, the leased property will treated capital lease for financial reporting purposes. The remainder our other long-term liabilities primarily include deferred tax liabilities, unearned revenue, asset retirement obligations, and deferred rental liabilities. Note \x97COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments lease office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . December , entered into series leases and other agreements for the lease corporate office space developed Seattle, Washington with initial terms years commencing completion development and and options extend for two five year periods. Under the agreements will occupy approximately , square feet office space. also have the right occupy additional approximately , square feet subject termination fee, estimated approximately $ million, the Company elects not occupy the additional space. addition, have options lease additional approximately , square feet rates based fair market values the time the options are exercised, subject certain conditions. addition, interest rates exceed certain threshold, have the option provide financing for some the buildings. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for inventory purchases that support normal operations, December , : Year Ended December , Thereafter Total ( millions) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal ( ) $ $ $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Debt interest ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Capital leases, including interest Operating leases Other commitments ( )( ) Total commitments $ $ , $ $ $ $ $ , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) ( ) Under our % PEACS, the principal payment due and the annual interest payments fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. December , , the Euro . Dollar exchange rate was . Due changes the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, our remaining principal debt obligation under this instrument since issuance February has increased $ million December , . The principal and interest commitments December , reflect the partial redemptions the % PEACS and % Convertible Subordinated Notes. ( ) Includes the estimated timing and amounts payments for rent, operating expenses, and tenant improvements associated with approximately , square feet corporate office space Seattle, Washington. also have the right occupy additional approximately , square feet subject termination fee, estimated approximately $ million, not elect occupy this additional space. The amount space available and our financial and other obligations under the lease agreements are affected various factors, including government approvals and permits, interest rates, development costs and other expenses and our exercise certain rights under the lease agreements. ( ) Includes commitments acquire intellectual property and unrecognized tax benefits under FIN , but excludes $ million such unrecognized tax benefits for which cannot make reasonably reliable estimate the amount and period payment. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Income Taxes.\x94 January closed entered into agreements, subject regulatory approvals and other conditions, acquire invest certain companies. These acquisitions and investments result aggregate cash payments approximately $ million, net cash acquired. Pledged Securities are required pledge otherwise restrict portion our cash and marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions twelve months longer non-current \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. The balance pledged securities December , consisted $ million \x93Cash and cash equivalents\x94 and \x93Marketable securities,\x94 and $ million \x93Other assets.\x94 The amount required pledged for certain real estate lease agreements changes over the life our leases based our credit rating and changes our market capitalization (common shares outstanding multiplied the closing price our common stock). Information about collateral required pledged under these agreements follows: Standby and Trade Letters Credit and Guarantees Debt ( ) Real Estate Leases ( ) Total ( millions) Balance December , $ $ $ $ Net change collateral pledged ( ) Balance December , $ $ $ $ ( ) Represents collateral for certain debt related our international operations. ( ) December , , our market capitalization was $ billion. The required amount collateral pledged will increase $ million our market capitalization equal below $ billion and additional $ million our market capitalization equal below $ billion. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Legal Proceedings The Company involved from time time claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following: October , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys\x92 fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. November , the Court dismissed all the plaintiff\x92 claims with prejudice. The plaintiff appealing that dismissal. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint, and will continue defend ourselves vigorously this matter. Beginning March , were served with complaints filed several different states, including Illinois, private litigant, Beeler, Schad & Diamond, ., purportedly behalf the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that (along with other companies with which have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales personal property customers those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating were not required collect remit such taxes. December , learned that one additional complaint was filed the state Illinois different private litigant, Matthew . Hurst, alleging similar violations the Illinois state law. All the complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys\x92 fees, civil penalties $ , per violation, and treble punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. possible that have been will named similar cases other states well. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. May , Toysrus com LLC filed complaint against for breach contract the Superior Court New Jersey. The complaint alleged that breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus com LLC selling, and permitting other third parties sell, products that Toysrus com LLC alleged has exclusive right sell our website. disputed the allegations the complaint and brought counterclaims alleging breach contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. The trial both parties\x92 claims concluded November . March , the Court entered judgment favor Toysrus com LLC, terminating the contract but declining award damages either party. are pursuing appeal the lower court\x92 rulings terminating the contract, declining award damages, and denying our motion compel Toysrus com pay certain fees incurred during the wind-down period. December , Registrar Systems LLC filed complaint against and Target Corporation for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Colorado. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including the method which Amazon com enables customers use Amazon com account information websites that Amazon com operates for third parties, such Target com, infringes two patents obtained Registrar Systems purporting cover methods and apparatuses for \x93World Wide Web Registration Information Processing System\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. September , the Court entered order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome the Patent and Trademark Office\x92 -examination the patents suit. August , Cordance Corporation filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) our -Click ordering system, infringes patent obtained Cordance purporting cover \x93Object-Based Online Transaction Infrastructure\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. response, asserted declaratory judgment counterclaim the same action alleging that service that Cordance has advertised its intent launch infringes patent owned entitled \x93Networked Personal Contact Manager\x94 ( . Patent . , , ). dispute Cordance\x92 allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. April , SBJ Holdings , LLC filed complaint against the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes patent obtained SBJ Holdings purporting cover \x93Method, Memory, Product, and Code for Displaying Pre-Customized Content Associated with Visitor Data\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment and post-judgment interest, costs and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves the matter. August , Polaris , LLC filed complaint against and others the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes patent obtained Polaris purporting cover \x93Automatic Message Interpretation and Routing System\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, prejudgment and post-judgment interest, costs and attorneys\x92 fees. November , entered into settlement the litigation that included, among other things, non-exclusive license the patent suit. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, results operations, financial position, cash flows. See also \x93Note \x97Income Taxes.\x94 Inventory Suppliers During , vendor accounted for % more our inventory purchases. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. Note \x97STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Preferred Stock have authorized million shares $ par value Preferred Stock. preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Stock Repurchase Activity August , our Board Directors authorized -month program repurchase $ million our common stock, pursuant which repurchased $ million and $ million our common stock and , respectively. April , our Board authorized new -month program repurchase $ million our common stock, which was replaced February -month program repurchase $ billion our common stock. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Stock Award Plans Employees vest restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years. Outstanding stock options generally have term years from the date grant. Stock options outstanding have weighted average exercise life years, with weighted average exercise price $ . Stock Award Activity granted stock awards, which consist primarily restricted stock units, representing million, million, and million shares common stock during , , and with per share weighted average fair value $ , $ , and $ . Common shares underlying outstanding stock awards were follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Restricted stock units Stock options Total outstanding stock awards Common shares outstanding (which includes restricted stock), plus shares underlying outstanding stock options and restricted stock units totaled million, million, and million December , , and . These totals include all stock-based awards outstanding, without regard for estimated forfeitures, consisting vested and unvested awards and -the-money and out- -the-money stock options. Common shares outstanding decreased both and due repurchases common stock, offset exercises stock options, vesting restricted stock units, and matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan. The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity ( millions): Number Units Outstanding January , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units December , follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting\x97restricted stock units matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan, granted million and million shares common stock for years ended and . Shares granted matching contributions under our ( ) plan are included outstanding common stock when issued. December , , there was $ million net unrecognized compensation cost related unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation recognized accelerated basis resulting approximately half the compensation expected expensed the next twelve months, and has weighted average recognition period years. During and , the fair value restricted stock units vested was $ million and $ million. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance December , , common stock available for future issuance follows ( millions): December , Stock awards Shares issuable upon conversion % Convertible Subordinated Notes Shares issuable upon conversion % PEACS Total common stock reserved for future issuance Note \x97OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The changes the components other comprehensive income (loss) were follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Net income $ $ $ Net activity available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the year, net tax ( ) Reclassification adjustment for net realized gains losses included net income, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 Net change unrealized gains losses available-for-sale securities ( ) Foreign currency translation adjustment, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Amortization net unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Comprehensive income $ $ $ AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Accumulated balances within other comprehensive income (loss) were follows: December , ( millions) Net unrealized gains (losses) foreign currency translation, net tax $ ( ) $ Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities, net tax ( ) Net unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax ( ) ( ) Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ $ ( ) Note \x97OTHER OPERATING EXPENSE, NET Other operating expense, net, was $ million and $ million and , primarily attributable amortization other intangibles. Other operating expense, net, was $ million , primarily attributable our settlement patent lawsuit for $ million, well amortization other intangibles $ million. Note \x97OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other income (expense), net, was $( ) million, $( ) million, and $ million, , and , and consisted primarily gains and losses sales marketable securities, foreign-currency transaction gains and losses, and other miscellaneous losses. Foreign-currency transaction gains and losses primarily relate the interest payable our % PEACS, well foreign-currency gains and losses cross-currency investments. Since interest payments our % PEACS are settled Euros, the balance interest payable subject gains losses resulting from changes exchange rates between the . Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and payment. Note \x97REMEASUREMENTS AND OTHER Remeasurements and other consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( millions) Foreign-currency gain (loss) remeasurement % PEACS $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Loss redemption long-term debt \x97 ( ) ( ) Foreign-currency gain (loss) intercompany balances ( ) Other ( ) Total remeasurements and other $ ( ) $ $ Note \x97INCOME TAXES , and recorded net tax provisions $ million, $ million, and $ million. majority this provision non-cash. have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating excess stock-based compensation that are being utilized reduce our taxable income. such, cash taxes paid were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The components the provision for income taxes, net were follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Current taxes: . and state $ $ $ International Current taxes Deferred taxes ( ) Provision for income taxes, net $ $ $ . and international components income before income taxes were follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) . $ $ $ International ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes $ $ $ The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are follows: Year Ended December , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Valuation allowance ( ) ( ) ( ) Impact international operations restructuring ( ) Other, net Total % % % The effective tax rate was lower than the % . federal statutory rate primarily due earnings our subsidiaries outside the . jurisdictions where our effective tax rate lower than the . The effective tax rate was higher than the % . federal statutory rate resulting from establishment our European headquarters Luxembourg. Associated with the establishment our European headquarters, transferred certain our operating assets and from the . international locations. These transfers resulted taxable income and exposure additional taxable income assertions taxing jurisdictions. Included the provision and reducing the impact the international restructure was tax benefit $ million, resulting from certain our deferred tax assets becoming more likely than not realizable. This tax benefit represented $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The significant components deferred income tax expense attributable income from operations for , , and were follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Deferred tax expense (benefit) exclusive the effect the items listed below $ ( ) $ $ Decrease valuation allowance ( ) ( ) ( ) Tax benefit net operating and capital loss carryforwards \x97 \x97 ( ) Total deferred tax expense (benefit) $ ( ) $ $ Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were follows: December , ( millions) Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses\x97stock-based compensation ( ) $ $ Net operating losses\x97other Assets held for investment Revenue items Expense items, including stock-based compensation Net tax credits ( ) Deferred tax assets under FIN \x97 Total gross deferred tax assets Less valuation allowance ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance Deferred tax liabilities: Expense items ( ) ( ) Deferred tax liabilities under FIN ( ) \x97 Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance and deferred tax liabilities $ $ ( ) Presented net fully reserved NOL deferred tax asset $ million and $ million December , and . The total gross deferred tax assets relating our excess stock-based compensation NOLs December , and were $ million and $ million (relating approximately $ billion and $ billion NOLs). ( ) Presented net fully reserved deferred tax assets associated with tax credits $ million and $ million December , and . Total tax credits available claimed future years are approximately $ million and $ million December , and . ( ) Relates primarily deferred tax assets that would only realizable upon the generation future capital gains and net income certain taxing jurisdictions. have not fully utilized NOLs which were generated the years through , that the statute limitations for these years remains open for purposes adjusting the amounts the losses carried forward from those years. The majority our NOLs begin expire and thereafter. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Tax Contingencies are subject income taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based estimates whether, and the extent which, additional taxes will due. These reserves are established when believe that certain positions might challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. adjust these reserves light changing facts and circumstances, such the outcome tax audit. The provision for income taxes includes the impact reserve provisions and changes reserves that are considered appropriate. Accruals for tax contingencies are provided for accordance with the requirements FIN . The reconciliation our tax contingencies follows ( millions): Gross tax contingencies\x97January , $ Gross increases tax positions prior periods Gross decreases tax positions prior periods ( ) Gross increases current period tax positions Audit settlements paid during ( ) Gross tax contingencies\x97December , ( ) $ ( ) December , , had $ million tax contingencies which $ million, fully recognized, would affect our effective tax rate and increase additional paid- capital $ million reflect the tax benefits excess stock-based compensation deductions. December , , changes our tax contingencies that are reasonably possible the next months are not material. Our policy include interest and penalties related our tax contingencies income tax expense. December , , had accrued interest and penalties related tax contingencies $ million, net federal income tax benefits, our balance sheet. Interest and penalties recognized for the year ended December , was $ million, net federal income tax benefits. are under examination, may subject examination, the Internal Revenue Service (\x93IRS\x94) for calendar years through . Additionally, any net operating losses that were generated prior years and utilized these years may also subject examination the IRS. are under examination, may subject examination, the following major jurisdictions for the years specified: Kentucky for through , France for through , Germany for through , Luxembourg for through , and the United Kingdom for through . addition, February , Japanese tax authorities assessed income tax, including penalties and interest, approximately $ million against one our . subsidiaries for the years through . believe that these claims are without merit and are disputing the assessment. Further proceedings the assessment will stayed during negotiations between . and Japanese authorities over the double taxation issues the assessment raises, and have provided bank guarantees suspend enforcement the assessment. also may subject income tax examination Japanese tax authorities for . Note \x97SEGMENT INFORMATION have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) allocate segment results the operating expenses \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 and \x93General and administrative,\x94 but exclude from our allocations the portions these expense lines attributable stock-based compensation. Additionally, not allocate the line item \x93Other operating expense, net\x94 our segment operating results. significant majority our costs for \x93Technology and content\x94 are incurred the United States and most these costs are allocated our North America segment. There are internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such www amazon com, www amazon , www shopbop com, and www endless com ; from our Amazon Prime membership program; and from non-retail activities such North America-focused Amazon Enterprise Solutions, Amazon Web Services and marketing, and promotional services. This segment includes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . International The International segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally focused websites such www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and our Joyo Amazon websites www joyo and www amazon ; from our Amazon Prime membership program; and from non-retail activities such internationally focused Amazon Enterprise Solutions, Amazon Web Services and marketing and promotional services. This segment includes export sales from these internationally based sites (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income was follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) North America Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross profit , , , Direct segment operating expenses , , Segment operating income $ $ $ International Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross profit , Direct segment operating expenses Segment operating income $ $ $ Consolidated Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross profit , , , Direct segment operating expenses , , , Segment operating income Stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Other operating expense, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Income from operations Total non-operating income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 Net income $ $ $ Net sales shipped customers outside the . represented approximately half net sales for , , and . Net sales from www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon each represented % more consolidated net sales , and . Net fixed assets held locations outside the . were $ million, $ million, and $ million December , , , and . Total assets, segment, reconciled consolidated amounts were ( millions): December , North America $ , $ , International , , Consolidated $ , $ , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Depreciation expense, segment, was follows ( millions): Year Ended December , North America $ $ $ International Consolidated $ $ $ Note \x97FAIR VALUES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amount and estimated fair values our financial instruments were follows ( millions): December , Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying Amount Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , $ , $ , Marketable securities ( ) Other equity investments ( ) Long-term debt ( ) , , , , ( ) The fair value marketable securities determined from publicly quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 ( ) The fair value other equity investments determined from publicly quoted prices, plus the carrying amount privately-held investments for which market values are not readily determinable. evaluate \x93Other equity investments\x94 for impairment accordance with our stated policy. See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) The fair value our long-term debt determined based quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt.\x94 Note \x97QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter and . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December . Unaudited quarterly results were follows ( millions, except per share data): Year Ended December , ( ) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , Income before income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income Basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Year Ended December , ( ) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit Income before income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income Basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted ( ) The sum quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due the effects rounding and changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures carried out evaluation required the Act, under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act, December , . Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, December , , our disclosure controls and procedures were effective provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the reports that file submit under the Act recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified the SEC\x92 rules and forms and provide reasonable assurance that such information accumulated and communicated our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Management\x92 Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting December , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. result this assessment, management concluded that, December , , our internal control over financial reporting was effective providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December , that materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations Controls Management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures our internal control over financial reporting will prevent detect all error and fraud. Any control system, matter how well designed and operated, based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will met. Further, evaluation controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due error fraud will not occur that all control issues and instances fraud, any, within the Company have been detected. Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited Amazon com, Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Amazon com, Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management\x92 Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Amazon com, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , Amazon com, Inc. and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / RNST & OUNG LLP Seattle, Washington February , ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information None. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part \x93Business\x97Executive Officers and Directors.\x94 Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors and any material changes the process which security holders may recommend nominees the Board Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating our Code Business Conduct and Ethics and compliance with Section ( ) the Act set forth our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. the extent permissible under Nasdaq rules, intend disclose amendments our Code Business Conduct and Ethics, well waivers the provisions thereof, our investor relations website under the heading \x93Corporate Governance\x94 www amazon com website. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Equity for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule \x97Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) Index Exhibits Exhibit Number Description Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - , dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment . Brian Valentine, dated June , . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Marc . Onetto, dated November , . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Sebastian . Gunningham, dated January , . \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Exhibit Number Description \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. List Significant Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}