{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Our mission enable people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. Since our founding , have worked achieve our mission creating technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate. develop and market software, services, and solutions that believe deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value people\x92 lives. business throughout the world and have offices more than countries. generate revenue developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products for many computing devices. Our software products include operating systems for servers, personal computers, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solution applications; high-performance computing applications, and software development tools. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify computer system integrators and developers. sell the Xbox video game console and games, the Zune digital music and entertainment device, games, and peripherals. Online offerings and information are delivered through our Windows Live, Office Live, and MSN portals and channels. enable the delivery online advertising through our proprietary adCenter ® platform. also research and develop advanced technologies for future software products. believe that delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our integrated software platform the key meeting our customers\x92 needs and our future growth. believe that continue lay the foundation for long-term growth delivering new products, creating opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction, and improving our internal processes. Our focus build this foundation through ongoing innovation our integrated software platforms; delivering compelling value propositions customers; responding effectively customer and partner needs; and continuing emphasize the importance product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability. OPERATING SEGMENTS Our segments provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses. The segments provide framework for the alignment strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and for the timely and rational allocation development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. The segments also help focus strategic planning efforts key objectives and initiatives across our businesses. Due our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments. Therefore, these segments are not designed measure operating income loss that directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and motivate shared effort. Segments should not viewed discrete easily separable businesses. PAGE Part Item July , announced change our operating segments reflecting previously announced reorganizations. have five operating segments: Client, Server and Tools, the Online Services Business, the Microsoft Business Division, and the Entertainment and Devices Division. Prior fiscal year information has been recast conform the way internally managed and monitored performance the business group level fiscal year . See Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) for financial information regarding segment reporting. Client Client has overall responsibility for the technical architecture, engineering, and product delivery our Windows product family, and responsible for our relationships with personal computer manufacturers, including multinational and regional original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94). The segment includes sales and marketing expenses for the Windows client operating system and product development efforts for the Windows platform. Client revenue growth correlated with the growth purchases personal computers from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. released Windows Vista, the latest generation the Windows operating system, fiscal year . This release concluded major development phase that believe resulted significantly more manageable and powerful operating system compared prior releases. Windows Vista includes advances security, digital media, user interfaces, and other areas that enhance the user and developer experience. Products: Windows Vista, including Home, Home Premium, Ultimate, Business, and Enterprise Starter Edition; Windows Professional and Home; Media Center Edition; Tablet Edition; and other standard Windows operating systems. Competition Client faces strong competition from well-established companies with differing approaches the market. Competing commercial software products, including variants Unix, are supplied competitors such Apple Computer, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Sun Microsystems. The Linux operating system, which also derived from Unix and available without payment under General Public License, has gained some acceptance competitive pressures lead OEMs reduce costs. The Windows operating system also faces competition from alternative platforms and new devices that may reduce consumer demand for traditional personal computers. Competitors such Mozilla offer software that competes with the Internet Explorer Web browsing capabilities Windows products. Apple Computer, Real Networks, and others compete with Windows Media Player. Our operating system products compete effectively delivering innovative software, familiar, easy- -use interface, compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, and the largest support network for any operating system. Server and Tools Server and Tools develops and markets software server products, services, and solutions. Windows Server products are integrated server infrastructure and middleware software designed support software applications and tools built the Windows Server operating system. Windows Server products include the server platform, database, storage, management and operations, service-oriented architecture platform, and security software. The segment also builds standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server products can run premise hosting environment. offer broad range consulting services and provide product support services and customer industry solutions. The segment also provides training and certification developers and information technology professionals about our Server and Client platform products. Server and Tools also includes the Enterprise Partner Group, which responsible for sales, partner management, and partner programs for medium and large organizations, and the Public Sector sales and marketing organization. Approximately % Server revenue comes from multi-year licensing agreements, approximately % purchased through fully packaged product and transactional volume licensing programs, and approximately % comes from licenses sold OEMs. The remainder our revenue comes from consulting and product support services. PAGE Part Item Products and Services: Windows Server operating system; Microsoft SQL Server; Microsoft Enterprise Services; product support services; Visual Studio; System Center products; Forefront Security products; Biz Talk Server; MSDN; and TechNet, among others. Competition Our server operating system products face intense competition from wide variety server operating systems and server applications, offered companies with variety market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Sun Microsystems offer their own variant Unix preinstalled server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system. Linux\x92 competitive position has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many leading commercial software developers and non-commercial software developers. number companies supply versions Linux, including Novell and Red Hat. Server virtualization platform providers based Linux, such VMWare, represent another means which Linux competes with the Windows server operating system. have entered into business and technical collaboration agreements with Novell and other Linux providers build, market, and support series solutions make our products work better with their solutions, and provide each other\x92 customers with patent coverage for respective products. compete the business providing enterprise-wide computing solutions with several companies that provide solutions and middleware technology platforms. IBM and Sun Microsystems lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition (J2EE). Commercial software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Computer Associates, IBM, and Oracle. Numerous commercial software vendors offer competing commercial software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, and -business servers. System Center competes with BMC, Computer Associates, and IBM the management information technology (\x93 \x94) infrastructures, while Forefront Security competes with McAfee, Symantec, and Trend Micro protecting both client and server applications. Non-commercial software products, including the widely-deployed Apache Web Server, also compete with our solutions. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, BEA Systems, Borland, IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, and other companies. believe that our server products provide customers with advantages innovation, performance, total costs ownership, and productivity, delivering superior applications development tools and development environment, compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Online Services Business The Online Services Business (\x93OSB\x94) provides personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, and online information offerings such Live Search and MSN portals and channels around the world. OSB also provides variety online services such MSN Internet Access, MSN Premium Web Services, and OneCare. OSB manages many its own properties, including home page, health, auto and shopping. addition, OSB creates alliances with third parties, such CareerBuilder com, Expedia com, Foxsports com, Match com, and MSNBC com. OSB generates revenue primarily from online advertising, subscriptions and transactions online paid services, well MSN narrowband Internet access subscriptions. fiscal year , OSB launched adCenter, our proprietary advertising platform, and has since transitioned the advertising business the . and certain international markets adCenter. fiscal year , launched new online initiatives, including Windows Live Search\x99 and Live com international markets, Live Local Search the . and ., beta versions MSN Soapbox (expansion the MSN Video experience), Virtual Earth\x99 , Windows Live Hotmail, and others. Products: MSN Search; MapPoint; MSN Internet Access; MSN Premium Web Services (consisting MSN Internet Software Subscription, MSN Hotmail Plus, MSN Bill Pay, and MSN Radio Plus); Windows Live; and MSN Mobile Services. Competition OSB competes with AOL, Google, Yahoo!, and wide array Web sites and portals that provide content and online offerings all types end users. compete with these organizations provide advertising opportunities for merchants. OSB also competes for narrowband Internet access users with AOL, Earthlink, and other ISPs for dial- internet access the United States. Due the continuing trend consumers migrating from narrowband broadband Internet access, expect our narrowband Internet access subscriber base continue decline PAGE Part Item -emphasize this portion our business. The Internet advertising industry has grown significantly over the past several years, and anticipate that this trend will continue. Competitors are aggressively developing Internet offerings that seek provide more effective ways connecting advertisers with audiences through enhanced functionality communication services, improvements information services such Internet search, and improved advertising infrastructure and support services. have developed our own algorithmic search engine provide end users with more relevant search results, broader selection content, and expanded search services. support the growth our advertising business, also are investing our communication services, technology, operations, and sales efforts. will continue introduce new products and services, including the Windows Live set services that are aimed attracting additional users through improvements the user online experience. believe that can compete effectively across the breadth our Internet services providing users with software innovation the form information and communication services that help them find, discover, and experience what they want online and providing merchants with effective advertising results through improved systems and sales support. Microsoft Business Division Microsoft Business Division (\x93MBD\x94) offerings consist the Microsoft Office system and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity through range programs, services, and software solutions. Growth revenue from the Microsoft Office system offerings, which generate over % MBD revenue, depends our ability add value the core Office product set and continue expand our product offerings other information worker areas such enterprise content management, collaboration, unified communications and business intelligence. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. evaluate our results based upon the nature the end user two primary parts\x97business revenue which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue, and consumer revenue which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales, OEM revenue, and sales pre-installed versions Office Japan. Approximately % MBD revenue generated from sales businesses. Revenue from this category generally depends upon the number information workers licensed enterprise and therefore relatively independent the number PCs sold given year. Approximately % MBD revenue derived from sales consumers. Most this revenue generated from new licenses acquired through fully packaged products and licenses sold through OEMs for new PCs and are generally affected the level shipments and product launches. Products: Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Microsoft Visio; Microsoft Office SharePoint Server; Microsoft Exchange Server; Microsoft Exchange Hosted Services; Microsoft Office Live Meeting; Microsoft Office Communication Server; Microsoft Office Communicator; Microsoft Tellme Service, Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics CRM; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics NAV; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics Retail Management System; Microsoft Partner Program; and Microsoft Office Accounting. Competition Competitors the Microsoft Office system include many software application vendors such Apple, Corel, Google, IBM, Novell, Oracle, Red Hat, Sun Microsystems, and local application developers Europe and Asia. IBM (Smartsuite) and Corel (WordPerfect Suite) have measurable installed bases with their office productivity products. Apple may distribute certain its application software products with various models its PCs. The OpenOffice org project provides freely downloadable cross-platform application that also has been adapted various commercial software vendors sell under their brands, including IBM, Novell, Red Hat, and Sun. Corel\x92 suite and many local software suites around the world are aggressively priced for OEMs preinstall low-priced PCs. Google has launched Google Apps, hosted messaging and productivity suite, and also provides enterprise search offering that competes with Microsoft Office SharePoint Server for Search, our new enterprise search product. Web-based offerings such AjaxWrite, gOffice, iNetOffice, SimDesk, ThinkFree, wikiCalc, other small projects competing with individual applications, can also provide alternative Microsoft Office system products. IBM has many different points competition with Office system products with its Notes and Workplace offerings. PAGE Part Item Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with well-known vendors such Intuit and Sage the market focused providing solutions for small and mid-sized businesses. The market for large organizations and divisions global enterprises intensely competitive with small number primary vendors including Oracle and SAP. These vendors are positioning many their business applications focus more intensely small and mid-sized businesses. Additionally Salesforce com\x92 -demand customer relationship management offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM Live and Microsoft Dynamic CRM\x92 -premise offerings. believe our products compete effectively with these vendors based our strategy providing interoperable, adaptable solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have. continue respond market demand for additional functionality and products, will compete with additional vendors, most notably enterprise content management, collaboration tools, unified communications, and business intelligence. These competitors include SAP; IBM; Cisco, with their acquisition WebEx; Oracle, with the acquisition Hyperion; and other business intelligence vendors such Business Objects and Cognos. Entertainment and Devices Division The Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) responsible for developing, producing, and marketing the Xbox video game system, including consoles and accessories, third-party games, games published under the Microsoft brand, and Xbox Live operations, well research, sales, and support those products. addition Xbox, offer the Zune digital music and entertainment device; software games; online games; Mediaroom, our Internet protocol television (\x93IPTV\x94) software; and other devices. EDD also leads the development efforts our line consumer software and hardware products including application software for Macintosh computers and Microsoft hardware products, and responsible for all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office and the Windows operating systems. EDD also includes the mobile and embedded devices platform and responsible for managing our company-wide sales and customer relations with device manufacturers and other communication-sector customers including network service providers and media and entertainment companies. Products: Xbox console and games; Xbox Live; Zune; Mediaroom; numerous consumer software and hardware products (such mice and keyboards); Windows Mobile software platform; Windows Embedded device operating system; and Windows Automotive. Competition Entertainment and devices businesses are highly competitive, characterized rapid product life cycles, frequent introductions new products and titles, and the development new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized significant price competition. anticipate continued pricing pressure from our competitors. From time time, have responded this pressure reducing prices certain products. Our competitors vary size from very small companies with limited resources very large, diversified corporations with substantial financial and marketing resources. compete primarily the basis product innovation, quality and variety, timing product releases, and effectiveness distribution and marketing. Our Xbox hardware business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large, established base customers. The lifecycle for video game consoles averages five seven years. released Xbox , our second generation console, November . Nintendo and Sony released new versions their game consoles late . believe the success video game consoles determined the availability games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability the console, and the ability create new revenue sources such advertising and downloadable content. think the Xbox positioned well against competitive console products based significant innovation hardware architecture, new developer tools, expanded revenue sources, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises such Halo. addition competing against software published for non-Xbox platforms, our games business also competes with numerous companies that have licensed develop and publish software for the Xbox consoles. Zune competes with the Apple iPod well other digital music and entertainment devices. Our hardware products face aggressive competition from computer and other hardware manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners. Mediaroom faces competition primarily from variety competitors that provide elements IPTV delivery platform, but that not provide end- -end solutions for the network operator. Windows Mobile software faces substantial competition from Nokia, Openwave Systems, Palm, QUALCOMM, Research Motion, and Symbian. The embedded operating system business highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include IBM, Wind River, and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. PAGE Part Item OPERATIONS serve the needs customers around the world and improve the quality and usability products international markets, \x93localize\x94 many our products reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Our operational centers support all operations their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center Singapore supports the Japan, Greater China and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers Fargo, Puerto Rico, Redmond, and Reno support Latin America and North America. contract most our manufacturing activities third parties who produce the Xbox , Zune, various retail software packaged products, and Microsoft hardware. Our products may include some components that are available from only one limited sources. Our Xbox console includes certain key components that are supplied single source. The central processing unit purchased from IBM and the graphics chips and embedded dynamic random access memory chips for the graphics processing unit are purchased from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and NEC Corporation, respectively. Although have chosen initially source these key Xbox components from single supplier, are under obligation exclusively source components from these vendors the future. Beyond the exceptions noted, generally have the ability use other custom manufacturers the current vendor becomes unavailable. generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. These amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years. plan continue make significant investments broad range research and product development efforts. While most our software products are developed internally, also purchase technology, license intellectual property rights, and oversee third-party development and localization certain products. believe are not materially dependent upon licenses and other agreements with third parties relating the development our products. Internal development allows maintain closer technical control over our products. also gives the freedom decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. Generally, also create product documentation internally. strive obtain information the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, provide application vendors with range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Business and Product Development Strategy . Innovation key factor affecting Microsoft\x92 growth. Our model for growth based broad adoption innovation, willingness enter new markets, and embracing and acting disruptive trends. continue our long-term commitment research and development, including advanced work aimed innovations, wide spectrum technologies, tools, and platforms; communication and collaboration; information access and organization; entertainment; business and -commerce; and devices. Increasingly, are taking global approach innovation. While our main research and development facilities are located Redmond, Washington, also operate research facilities other parts the United States and around the world, including China, Canada, Denmark, England, India, Ireland, and Israel. This global approach will help remain competitive local markets and attract top talent wherever resides. Based our broad focus innovation and long-term approach new markets, see the following key opportunities for growth: Consumer technology. build our strength the consumer marketplace with Windows Vista, the Microsoft Office System, Xbox , Microsoft Windows Live, Windows Mobile, and Zune, are focused delivering products that believe are compelling and cutting edge terms design well features and functionality. succeed consumer technologies, also are working define the next era consumer electronics. the past, consumer electronics was hardware-centric business; today, the innovation consumer electronics devices lies the software that powers them. This creating new opportunities for deliver end- -end experiences. PAGE Part Item Software plus services. Underlying our opportunities consumer technologies, and all our businesses, company-wide commitment fully embrace software plus services. The ability combine the power desktop and server software with the reach the Internet represents opportunity across every one our businesses. continue build out our services platform, will bring broad range new products and service offerings market that target the needs large enterprises, small and medium-sized businesses, and consumers. Expanding our presence the desktop and server. While enjoyed success fiscal year with the launches Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office System, see potential for growth delivering more value per customer. With the planned releases fiscal year Windows Server , SQL Server , and Visual Studio , and the possibility provide additional value security, messaging, systems management, and collaboration, believe are well-positioned build our strength with businesses all sizes. will continue pursue new opportunities high performance computing, unified communications, healthcare, and business intelligence. Emerging markets are also important opportunity for . fiscal year , announced the expansion our Unlimited Potential program the foundation for our efforts reach the five billion people around the globe who not have access PCs and digital technology today. DISTRIBUTION, SALES AND MARKETING distribute our products primarily through the following channels: OEM; distributors and resellers; and online. OEM. Our operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right build computing devices based our operating systems, principally PCs. Under similar arrangements, also market and license certain server operating systems, desktop applications, hardware devices, and consumer software products OEMs. have OEM agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the major OEMs, including Acer, Dell, Fujitsu, Fujitsu Siemens Computers, Gateway, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, NEC, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba. substantial amount OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume customized vendors operating local markets. Distributors and Resellers. license software organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer acquire multiple licenses products. Organizations license our products primarily through large account resellers (\x93LARs\x94), direct market resellers, and value-added resellers (\x93VARs\x94). Many organizations that license products through enterprise agreements (\x93EAs\x94) transact directly with , with sales support from our Enterprise Software Advisor channel partners. These Enterprise Software Advisors typically are also authorized LARs and operate resellers for our other licensing programs. Although each type reselling partner reaches organizations all sizes, LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations and VARs typically reach the breadth small- and medium-sized organizations. Some our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some our largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Insight Enterprises, Software House International, and Software Spectrum. Our Dynamics software offerings are licensed enterprises through global network channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. distribute our finished goods products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain our products primarily through retail outlets, including Best Buy, Target, and Wal-Mart. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers and provides product training and sales support. Our arrangements for organizations acquire multiple licenses products are designed provide them with means doing without having acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. delivering organizational licensing arrangements the market, use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they include: Open. Designed primarily for small- -medium organizations ( over licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, rights future versions software products over specified time period (generally two years). The offering that conveys rights future versions certain software product over the contract period called Software Assurance. Software Assurance also provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Under the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, licenses with Software Assurance. They can also renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. PAGE Part Item Select. Designed primarily for medium- -large organizations (greater than licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, Software Assurance, which consists rights future versions certain software products, support, tools, and training over specified time period (generally three years). Similar the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with Software Assurance, renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Enterprise Agreement. The Enterprise Agreement targeted medium and large organizations that want acquire perpetual licenses software products for all substantial parts their enterprise, along with rights future versions certain software products, support, tools, and training over specified time period (generally three years). Online. distribute online content and services through MSN and other online channels. OSB delivers Internet access and various premium services and tools consumers. OSB also delivers online -mail and messaging communication services and information services such online search, advertising, and premium content. EDD operates the Xbox Live service which allows customers participate the gaming experience with other subscribers online. operate and deliver the Microsoft Small Business Center portal. This portal provides tools and expertise for small-business owners build, market, and manage their businesses online. Other services delivered online include Microsoft Developer Networks subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support our partners developing and selling our products and solutions. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet Service Providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small- and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through resellers and OEMs. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year revenue. Sales Dell and its subsidiaries accounted for approximately % and % fiscal year and revenue, respectively. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels and cover broad array products including Windows operating systems, Microsoft Office, and server products. Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. PAGE Part Item EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers August , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates III Chairman the Board Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Robert . (Robbie) Bach President, Entertainment and Devices Division Lisa . Brummel Senior Vice President, Human Resources Kevin . Johnson President, Platforms and Services Division Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey . Raikes President, Microsoft Business Division Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President; General Counsel and Secretary Brian Kevin Turner Chief Operating Officer . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. June , . Gates stepped down Chief Software Architect and announced two-year plan transition out day- -day role the Company. . Gates has served Chairman since our incorporation. . Ballmer was appointed Chief Executive Officer January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Bach was named President, Entertainment and Devices Division September . had been Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March , Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity since , and Vice President, Desktop Applications Marketing since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Brummel was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources December . She had been Corporate Vice President, Human Resources since April . From April , she had been Corporate Vice President the Home & Retail Division. Since joining Microsoft , . Brummel has held number management positions Microsoft, including general manager the Consumer Productivity business and product unit manager several product lines. . Johnson was named President, Platforms and Services Division January . had been -President the Platforms and Services Division since September . held the position Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services since March . Before that position, had been Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas since February and Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August , and prior assuming that role, had been Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. joined Microsoft . . Liddell was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer the Company May . . Liddell served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer International Paper Company from March through April , and prior becoming Chief Financial Officer, held the positions Vice President-Finance and Controller. . Liddell served Chief Executive Officer Carter Holt Harvey Limited, affiliate International Paper, from and Chief Financial Officer from . . Raikes was named President, Microsoft Business Division September . had been Group Vice President, Information Worker Business since June . Before that position, had been Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services since August and Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary November . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer effective July . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . . Turner was named Chief Operating Officer September . Before joining Microsoft, was Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer the Sam\x92 Club division Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. From September August , served Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Wal-Mart\x92 Information Systems Division. From March September , served its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer the Information Systems Division. PAGE Part Item , EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. There make available, free charge, our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file such material with furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94). Our SEC reports can accessed through the investor relations section our Web site. The information found our Web site not part this any other report file with furnish the SEC. ', 'item 1a. ': 'RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results operations, cash flows, and trading price our common stock. Challenges our business model may reduce our revenues and operating margins. Our business model has been based upon customers paying fee license software that developed and distributed. Under this license-based software model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution their products. recent years, certain \x93open source\x94 software business models have evolved into growing challenge our license-based software model. Open source commonly refers software whose source code subject license allowing modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject restrictions set forth the license. number commercial firms compete with using open source business model modifying and then distributing open source software end users nominal cost and earning revenue complementary services and products. These firms not have bear the full costs research and development for the software. prominent example open source software the Linux operating system. Although believe our products provide customers with significant advantages security, productivity, and total cost ownership, the popularization the open source software model continues pose significant challenge our business model, including continuing efforts proponents open source software convince governments worldwide mandate the use open source software their purchase and deployment software products. the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance, sales our products may decline, may have reduce the prices charge for our products, and revenue and operating margins may consequently decline. Another development the software- - -service business model, which companies provide applications, data, and related services over the Internet. Providers use primarily advertising subscription-based revenue models. Recent advances computing and communications technologies have made this model viable and enabled the rapid growth some our competitors. are devoting significant resources toward developing our own competing software plus services strategies. uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful. face intense competition. continue experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors range size from Fortune companies small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. Although believe the breadth our businesses and product portfolio are competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused narrower product lines may more effective devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources compete with . addition, barriers entry our businesses generally are low and products, once developed, can distributed broadly and quickly relatively low cost. Open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts developing software that mimics the features and functionality our products. response competition, are developing versions our products with basic functionality that are sold lower prices than the standard versions. These competitive PAGE Part Item pressures may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives, resulting lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. may not able adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use software and other intellectual property difficult. While piracy adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the . more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Similarly, the absence harmonized patent laws makes more difficult ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail enhance revenue. Reductions the legal protection for software intellectual property rights additional compliance burdens could both adversely affect revenue. Third parties may claim infringe their intellectual property rights. From time time receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow. resolve these claims may enter into royalty and licensing agreements less favorable terms, stop selling redesign affected products, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. Such agreements may cause operating margins decline. have made and expect continue making significant expenditures settle claims related the use technology and intellectual property rights part our strategy manage this risk. may not able protect our source code from copying there unauthorized disclosure source code. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, critical our business. Although license portions our application and operating system source code number licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. unauthorized disclosure significant portion our source code occurs, could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. This could make easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code could also increase the security risks described the next paragraph. Security vulnerabilities our products could lead reduced revenues liability claims. Maintaining the security computers and computer networks critical issue for and our customers. Hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. Although this industry-wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, affects our products particular because hackers tend focus their efforts the most popular operating systems and programs and expect them continue . devote significant resources address security vulnerabilities through: \x95 engineering more secure products; \x95 enhancing security and reliability features our products; \x95 helping our customers make the best our products and services protect against computer viruses and other attacks; \x95 improving the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities; \x95 investing mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed; and \x95 providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such firewalls, anti-virus, and other security software. The cost these steps could reduce our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products could lead some customers seek return products, reduce delay future purchases, use competing products. Customers may also increase their expenditures protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption new technologies. Any these actions customers could adversely affect our revenue. addition, actual perceived vulnerabilities may lead claims against . Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure such liability, there assurance these provisions will held effective under applicable laws and judicial decisions. PAGE Part Item are subject government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how design and market our products. leading global software maker, receive close scrutiny from government agencies under . and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights action for competitors consumers assert claims anti-competitive conduct. For example, have been involved the following actions. Lawsuits brought the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia two separate actions were resolved through Consent Decree that took effect November and Final Judgment entered November . These proceedings imposed various constraints our Windows operating system businesses. These include limits certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers limit the visibility certain Windows features new PCs. Some these rules will expire November ; others will stay force until November later. Although believe are full compliance with these rules, fail comply with them, additional restrictions could imposed that would adversely affect our business. March , the European Commission ordered create new versions Windows that not include certain multimedia technologies provide our competitors with specifications for how implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols their own products. The design these special versions Windows and the terms which make our protocol technology available are closely regulated the Commission. The product design aspect the Commission decision may limit our ability innovate Windows the future, diminish the developer appeal the Windows platform and increase our product development costs. The availability protocol licenses may enable competitors develop software products that better mimic the functionality Microsoft\x92 own products which could result reduction sales our products. Pending resolution Microsoft\x92 appeal, there will remain uncertainty about the legal principles that govern product design and intellectual properties for future releases Microsoft products Europe. February , the Korean Fair Trade Commission (\x93KFTC\x94) issued decision requiring offer two versions Windows operating systems, one with Windows Media Player and instant messaging software removed and another with those functionalities included but also including promotional links competing software products. upheld appeal, these remedies could adversely affect the utility and competitive position Windows operating systems Korea. Government regulatory actions and court decisions may hinder our ability provide the benefits our software consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness our products and the revenues that come from them. New legal actions could initiated any time, either these other governments private claimants including with respect new versions Windows other Microsoft products. The outcome such legal actions could adversely affect variety ways, including: \x95 may have choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies avoid fines designing and developing alternative versions those products meet mandated government specifications, which may entail removing functionality that customers want developers rely . \x95 Creating mandated alternative versions our products may cause confusion that harms our reputation, including among consumers and with software and Web site developers who rely the functionality removed from these alternative versions. \x95 Government agencies may require that make available licenses our proprietary protocol technologies terms that not reflect their fair market value not protect our associated intellectual property. \x95 not reversed limited appeal, the rulings described above may cited precedent other proceedings that seek limit our ability continue improve Windows adding new functionality response consumer demand build our own software development efforts. Our software and services online offerings are subject government regulation the Internet domestically and internationally many areas including user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. The application these laws and regulations our business often unclear and sometimes may conflict. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs require changes business practices that result reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result penalties being imposed orders that stop doing the alleged noncompliant activity. Our business depends largely our ability attract and retain talented employees. Our business based successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders our PAGE Part Item industry extremely competitive. are limited our ability recruit internationally restrictive domestic immigration laws. are less successful our recruiting efforts, are unable retain key employees, our ability develop and deliver successful products and services may adversely affected. Effective succession planning also important our long-term success. Failure ensure effective transfer knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Delays product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new product releases significant problems creating new products could adversely affect our revenue. make significant investments new products and services that may not profitable. have made and will continue make significant investments research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including Windows Vista, the Microsoft Office system, Xbox , Live Search, Windows Server, Zune, and Windows Live. Investments new technology are inherently speculative. Commercial success depends many factors including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for number years, all. Moreover, new products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not high the margins have experienced historically. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Inflation, softness corporate information technology spending, other changes general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenue our investment portfolio. overall market demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines significantly, consumer corporate spending for such products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. addition, our revenue would unfavorably impacted customers reduce their purchases new software products upgrades because new offerings such Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system are not perceived providing significant new functionality other value prospective purchasers. have claims and lawsuits against that may result adverse outcomes. are subject variety claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes some all the claims pending against may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against that could adversely affect our ability conduct our business. Although management currently believes that resolving all these matters, individually the aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows, the litigation and other claims are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. There exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position, results operations, and cash flows for the period which the effect unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. may have additional tax liabilities. are subject income taxes both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. are regularly under audit tax authorities. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results audit litigation could have material effect our income tax provision, net income cash flows the period periods for which that determination made. Our consumer hardware products may experience quality supply problems . Our hardware products such the Xbox console are highly complex and can have defects design, manufacture associated software. could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm fail detect effectively address such issues through design, testing warranty repairs. obtain some components our hardware devices from sole suppliers. component delivery from sole-source supplier delayed becomes unavailable industry shortages occur, may unable obtain replacement supplies timely basis, resulting reduced sales. Either component shortages excess inventory may require record charges cost revenue. Xbox consoles are assembled Asia; disruptions the supply chain may result console shortages that would affect our revenues and operating margins. PAGE Part Item , our goodwill amortizable intangible assets become impaired may required record significant charge earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. Goodwill tested for impairment least annually. Factors that may considered change circumstances indicating that the carrying value our goodwill amortizable intangible assets may not recoverable include decline stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates our industry. may required record significant charge earnings our financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill amortizable intangible assets determined, negatively impacting our results operations. operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure make our pricing structure uniform might require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. Operations outside the United States may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor economic conditions specific country region; and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations. Although hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. Catastrophic events geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. disruption failure our systems operations the event major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales, providing services performing other mission-critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could severely affect our ability conduct normal business operations and, result, our operating results could adversely affected. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries operating costs. These conditions may lend additional uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that don\x92 realize satisfactory return the investment make, that experience difficulty the integration new employees, business systems, and technology, diversion management\x92 attention from our other businesses. These factors could adversely affect our operating results financial condition. Improper disclosure personal data could result liability and harm our reputation. store and process significant amounts personally identifiable information. possible that our security controls over personal data, our training employees and vendors data security, and other practices follow may not prevent the improper disclosure personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting increased costs loss revenue. Our software products also enable our customers store and process personal data. Perceptions that our products not adequately protect the privacy personal information could inhibit sales our products. Other risks that may affect our business. Other factors that may affect our performance may include sales channel disruption, such the bankruptcy major distributor, and our ability implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth. ', 'item 1b. ': 'UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS have received written comments regarding our periodic current reports from the staff the SEC that were issued days more preceding the end our fiscal year that remain unresolved. PAGE Part Item , , ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office space located King County, Washington: million square feet owned space that situated approximately acres land own our corporate campus and approximately million square feet space lease. own approximately million square feet office space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately million square feet that leased and approximately million square feet that owned. These facilities include our European Operations Center Dublin, Ireland, disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters. Leased office space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan; Unterschleissheim, Germany; Les Ulis, France; Reading, England; and Mississauga, Canada. addition the above locations, have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described \x93Product Development\x94 above. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. own acres land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet office space and have agreement with the City Redmond under which may develop additional million square feet facilities our campus Redmond, Washington. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) for information about legal proceedings which are involved. ', 'item 4. ': 'SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal year . PAGE Part Item PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) for information regarding dividends approved our Board Directors fiscal years and . July , , announced that our Board Directors authorized two new share repurchase programs: $ billion tender offer which was completed August , ; and authorization for additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program that expires June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares common stock, % our common shares outstanding, for approximately $ billion price per share $ . August , , announced that the authorization for the $ billion ongoing share repurchase program had been increased approximately $ billion. result, are authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. The transactions occurred open market purchases and pursuant trading plan under Rule 10b5- . repurchased common stock each quarter fiscal year using available cash resources follows: Period Total number shares purchased Average price paid per share July , \x96 September , , , $ October , \x96 December , , , $ January , \x96 March , , , $ April , \x96 June , , , $ Common stock repurchases the fourth quarter fiscal year were follows: Period ( ) Total number shares purchased ( ) Average price paid per share ( ) Total number shares purchased part publicly announced plans programs ( ) Approximate dollar value shares that may yet purchased under the plans programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , , , $ , , $ , May , \x96 May , , , $ , , $ , June , \x96 June , , , $ , , $ , , , , , PAGE Part Item ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Fiscal Year Ended June Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Long-term obligations , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , PAGE Part Item ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS , , AND OVERVIEW The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis (\x93 & \x94) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes the financial statements (\x93Notes\x94). develop, manufacture, license, and support wide range software products for many computing devices. Our software products include operating systems for servers, PCs, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; and software development tools. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify system integrators and developers. sell the Xbox video game console and games, the Zune digital music and entertainment device, games, and peripherals. Online communication and information services are delivered through our MSN portals, channels around the world, and through our search products. Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest the second quarter our fiscal year due corporate calendar year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers. fiscal year , our revenue was highest the third quarter due the recognition $ billion revenue previously deferred from the Express Upgrade Windows Vista and Microsoft Office Technology Guarantee programs and pre-shipments Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system. The technology guarantee programs provided customers who purchased current products with free discounted rights Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system when those products became available consumers. Our Entertainment and Devices Division particularly seasonal its products are aimed the consumer market and are highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Typically, the Entertainment and Devices Division has generated over % its yearly segment revenues our second fiscal quarter. With the exception fiscal year , believe the seasonality revenue likely continue the future. intend sustain the long-term growth our businesses through technological innovation, engineering excellence, and commitment delivering high-quality products and services customers and partners. Recognizing that one our primary challenges help accelerate worldwide adoption and software upgrades, continue advance the functionality, security, and value Windows operating systems and develop operating system versions targeted emerging markets. also are increasing our focus selling our products emerging markets and reducing the amount unlicensed software used those markets. addition, continue develop innovative software applications and solutions that believe will enhance the productivity information workers, improve communication and collaboration work groups, aid business intelligence, and streamline processes for small and mid-sized businesses. sustain the growth our Server and Tools business amid competition from other vendors both proprietary and open source software, our goal deliver products that provide the best platform for network computing \x96 software that easiest deploy and manage, and that most secure \x96 with the lowest total cost ownership. continue invest research and development existing and new lines business, including business solutions, mobile computing, communication, entertainment, and other areas that believe may contribute our long-term growth. also invest research and development advanced technologies for future software products. believe that delivering innovative and high-value solutions through our integrated platform the key meeting customer needs and our future growth. believe that over the last few years have laid foundation for long-term growth delivering innovative products, creating opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction with key audiences, and improving our internal business processes. Our focus fiscal year building this foundation and executing well key areas, including continuing innovate our integrated software platform, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and continuing focus internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability across the company. Key market opportunities include: Consumer echnology. are focused delivering consumer software products that believe are compelling terms design and features. are also working define the next era consumer electronics through innovating software that powers today\x92 consumer devices. PAGE Part Item Software plus services. The ability combine the power desktop and server software with the reach the Internet represents opportunity across every one our businesses. believe our software plus services approach will enable deliver new experiences end users and new value businesses. Expanding our presence the desktop and server. Through our ability deliver additional value security, messaging, systems management, and collaboration, and new technology for high performance computing, unified communications, healthcare, and business intelligence, believe are well-positioned build our strength with businesses all sizes. The expansion our Unlimited Potential program provides the foundation for our efforts reach the five billion people around the globe who not have access PCs and digital technology today. Summary Results for Fiscal Years , , and ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Fiscal year compared fiscal year Revenue growth was driven primarily licensing the Microsoft Office system and Windows Vista, increased revenue associated with SQL Server, Windows Server, and Visual Studio, and increased Xbox console sales. Foreign currency exchange rates did not have significant impact consolidated revenue during the year. Operating income growth was driven primarily the increased revenue and decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies, partially offset increased cost revenue associated with Xbox and Windows Vista, increased OSB data centers costs, and increased sales and marketing expenses. July , expanded our global Xbox warranty coverage three years from the date purchase for general hardware failure indicated three flashing red lights. result, recorded $ billion charge for anticipated costs under the warranty policy, inventory write-downs, and product returns. The increase sales and marketing expenses was primarily driven increased headcount-related costs and marketing costs related recent product launches. Headcount-related costs increased %, driven % increase headcount over the past twelve months and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. Fiscal year compared fiscal year Revenue growth was driven primarily growth SQL Server following the launch SQL Server the second quarter fiscal year , Windows Server and other server applications, increased Xbox revenue resulting from the Xbox launch November , growth licensing Windows operating systems through OEMs, and increased licensing Office and other MBD software. Foreign currency exchange rates did not have significant impact consolidated operating segment revenue during the fiscal year. Operating income increased primarily reflecting the revenue increase and decrease costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. These changes were partially offset increase cost revenue primarily related Xbox and increase sales and marketing expenses primarily result increased investments partner marketing and product launch-related spending. Headcount-related costs increased %, driven increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount and % growth headcount. Fiscal Year Outlook Worldwide macroeconomic factors have strong correlation business and consumer demand for our software, services, games, and Internet service offerings. expect broad continuation the economic conditions and demand fiscal year . also expect continued double digit revenue growth. Given our product launches the second half fiscal year , expect revenue growth higher the first half fiscal year than the second half. estimate worldwide shipments will grow between % and %. not expect significant PAGE Part Item impact from changes year-over-year foreign currency exchange rates fiscal year . expect our operating income growth rate exceed our revenue growth rate. SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) July , announced change our operating segments reflecting previously announced reorganizations. have five operating segments: Client, Server and Tools, the Online Services Business, the Microsoft Business Division, and the Entertainment and Devices Division. Prior fiscal year information has been recast conform the way internally managed and monitored performance the business group level fiscal year . The revenue and operating income/(loss) amounts this section are presented basis consistent with . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\x93GAAP\x94) and include certain reconciling items attributable each the segments. The segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) presented basis consistent with the Company\x92 internal management reporting, accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . Certain corporate-level activity has been excluded from our segment operating results and analyzed separately. Client ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Client offerings consist premium edition and standard Windows operating systems. Premium offerings are those that include additional functionality and are sold price above our standard versions. Premium offerings include Windows Professional, Media Center Edition, Tablet Edition, Vista Business, Vista Home Premium, and Vista Ultimate. Standard Windows operating systems include Windows Home and Windows Vista Home Basic. Client revenue growth correlates with the growth purchases PCs from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for approximately % total Client revenue. The differences between unit growth rates and revenue growth rates from year year are affected changes the mix OEM Windows operating systems licensed with premium edition operating systems percentage total OEM Windows operating systems licensed (\x93OEM premium mix\x94), changes the geographical mix, and changes the channel mix products sold large, multi-national OEMs versus those sold local and regional system builders. Fiscal year compared fiscal year Client revenue increased primarily reflecting licensing Windows Vista. OEM revenue increased $ billion % driven % growth OEM license units while revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems increased $ million %. During the year, the OEM Premium Mix increased percentage points %. Based our estimates, total worldwide shipments from all sources grew % % driven demand both emerging and mature markets. Client operating income increased reflecting the increased revenue and decreased research and development costs, partially offset increased Windows Vista product costs and increased sales and marketing expenses for launch-related programs. The decrease research and development costs reflects the capitalization certain Windows Vista software development costs and completion product development Windows Vista. Headcount-related costs decreased %, driven % decrease headcount and decrease stock-based compensation expense. Fiscal year compared fiscal year Client revenue increased reflecting $ billion % growth OEM revenue driven % growth OEM license units from increased unit shipments, partially offset $ million % decrease revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems. During the year, the OEM premium mix increased two percentage points %. OEM revenue growth included increase revenue $ million resulting from the alignment PAGE Part Item our billings associated with OEM distributors our system builder channel with both industry standards and other Microsoft channels. Client operating income increased reflecting the increase OEM revenue partially offset $ million increase sales and marketing expenses, excluding headcount-related costs, mainly driven increased investments partner marketing and Windows Vista pre-launch programs. Headcount-related costs increased %, driven % increase headcount primarily associated with Windows Vista and further investments our sales and marketing organization, and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Server and Tools offerings consist server software licenses and client access licenses (\x93CAL\x94) for Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, and other server products. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier and Professional product support services, and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server and Tools concentrates licensing products, applications, tools, content, and services that make information technology professionals and developers more productive and efficient. The segment uses multiple channels for licensing including pre-installed OEM versions, licenses through partners, and licenses directly end customers. sell licenses both one-time licenses and multi-year volume licenses. Fiscal year compared fiscal year Server and server application revenue (including CAL revenue) and developer tools, training, and certification revenue increased $ billion %. This increase was primarily driven increased revenue associated with SQL Server, Windows Server, and Visual Studio. The results reflect broad adoption Windows Server products, especially SQL Server which grew over %. Consulting, Premier, and Professional product support services revenue increased $ million % primarily due higher demand for Premier services corporate enterprises. Foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $ million two percentage point increase revenue. Server and Tools operating income increased reflecting the increased revenue, partially offset growth headcount-related costs and cost revenue for services. Headcount-related costs increased %, driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Cost revenue increased $ million % reflecting growth services provided. Fiscal year compared fiscal year Server and Tools revenue increased mainly driven growth SQL Server, Windows Server, and Visual Studio. SQL Server and Visual Studio were launched the second quarter fiscal year and produced revenue growth these product lines. Server and Server applications revenue (including CAL revenue) and developer tools, training and certification revenue increased $ billion % during fiscal year . The results reflect broad adoption Windows Server products, especially SQL Server, which grew over % for the year. Consulting, Premier and Professional product support services revenue increased $ million % primarily due higher demand for services. Server and Tools operating income increased primarily reflecting the increased revenue, partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses related supporting long-term strategies and the launches SQL Server and Visual Studio . Headcount-related costs increased %, driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. PAGE Part Item Online Services Business ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Operating income (loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ * * * Not meaningful The Online Services Business (\x93OSB\x94) provides personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, online information offerings, such Live Search, and the MSN portals and channels around the world. OSB also provides variety online services such MSN Internet Access, MSN Premium Web Services and OneCare. earn revenue primarily from online advertising, from consumers and partners through subscriptions and transactions generated from online paid services, and from MSN narrowband Internet access subscribers. have transitioned adCenter, our own platform, for online delivery advertising the . and certain international markets. continue launch new online initiatives and expect the future. fiscal year , launched Windows Live Search and Live com international markets, Live Local Search the . and ., beta versions MSN Soapbox (our expansion the MSN Video experience), Virtual Earth\x99 , Windows Live Hotmail, and other offerings. Fiscal year compared fiscal year OSB revenue increased driven primarily advertising revenue which grew $ million % $ billion. This increase was primarily due growth advertising for search, home page, email, and messaging services. The increase advertising revenue was partially offset $ million % decrease access revenue. June , , estimate that OSB had over million active Hotmail accounts and over million Messenger accounts. OSB operating loss increased driven primarily increased cost revenue which grew $ million % and increased headcount-related costs result continued search and advertising platform investments. The increase cost revenue was primarily driven increased data center costs, online content expenses, and royalties. Headcount-related costs increased %, driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. Fiscal year compared fiscal year OSB revenue decreased primarily reflecting $ million % decline access revenue, partially offset $ million % increase advertising revenue and $ million % increase revenue from subscription and transaction services other than access. Advertising revenue for fiscal year was $ billion. The increase advertising revenue reflects growth display advertising for portals, channels, email, and messaging services, which was partially offset decline search revenue due the transition adCenter. June , , OSB had million access subscribers compared with million June , . addition, OSB had over million active Hotmail accounts and over million active Messenger accounts June , . OSB operating income decreased due $ million % increase research and development costs, $ million % increase sales and marketing expenses, and $ million % increase cost revenue continued invest adCenter, Windows Live, and other new platforms. Headcount-related costs increased %, reflecting % increase headcount and increased salaries and benefits for existing employees, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation. PAGE Part Item Microsoft Business Division ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % MBD offerings consist the Microsoft Office system and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity through range programs, services, and software solutions. Growth revenue from the Microsoft Office system offerings, which generate over % MBD revenue, depends our ability add value the core Office product set and continue expand our product offerings other information worker areas such enterprise content management, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. evaluate our results based upon the nature the end user two primary parts \x96 business revenue which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue, and consumer revenue which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales, OEM revenue, and sales pre-installed versions Office Japan. Fiscal year compared fiscal year MBD revenue increased primarily reflecting licensing the Microsoft Office system. Revenue from consumer sales increased $ million % while revenue from business sales increased $ billion %. The increase business revenue includes % increase Microsoft Dynamics customer billings. Foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $ million two percentage point increase revenue. MBD operating income increased reflecting the increased revenue, partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses and cost revenue primarily associated with the Microsoft Office system. The increase sales and marketing expenses reflects increased headcount-related expenses, increased sales support costs from our Enterprise Software Advisor channel partners, and increased launch-related marketing expenses. Headcount-related costs increased %, driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decreased stock-based compensation expense. Fiscal year compared fiscal year MBD revenue increased reflecting increase business sales $ billion %, partially offset decrease consumer sales $ million %. The increase business sales reflects % increase Microsoft Dynamics customer billings. MBD operating income increased reflecting the increased revenue partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses related supporting field sales efforts and increased research and development expenses. Headcount-related costs increased %, driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decreased stock-based compensation expense. PAGE Part Item Entertainment and Devices Division ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( ) ( )% ( )% The Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) products include the Xbox video game system; games; consumer software and hardware products; the Zune digital music and entertainment device; Mediaroom, our Internet protocol television software; and Mobile and Embedded devices (Windows Mobile software platform, Windows Embedded device operating system and Windows Automotive). The success video game consoles determined console innovation and quality, the portfolio video game content for the console, online offerings, and the market share the console. believe that the functionality the Xbox console, games portfolio, and online offerings are well-positioned relative recently launched competitive consoles. Fiscal year compared fiscal year EDD revenue increased primarily due increased Xbox console sales, Zune sales, and increased Xbox accessories and video game sales. shipped million Xbox consoles during fiscal year compared million consoles during fiscal year . Xbox and game revenue increased $ million % result increased Xbox platform sales, partially offset decreased sales the first generation Xbox console and related accessories and video games. Zune, which was launched November , consumer hardware and software, and platforms revenue increased $ million %. Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue increased $ million % driven sales growth Windows Mobile software and Windows Embedded operating systems. EDD operating loss increased primarily due the $ billion Xbox charge recognized the fourth quarter fiscal year and Zune launch-related expenses. The increase operating loss was partially offset increased Xbox platform sales and decreased Xbox console manufacturing costs. Headcount-related costs increased %, driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Fiscal year compared fiscal year EDD revenue increased primarily due the launch the Xbox console November , partially offset decline first party Xbox game sales primarily resulting from the significant impact Halo fiscal year . The revenue growth was also attributable $ million % growth from our other product lines, primarily result increase games sales due significant new game releases, especially \x93Age Empires III\x94, and increase platform revenue due deployments fiscal year . Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue increased $ million % driven unit volume increases major product lines, especially Windows Mobile software sales and Windows Embedded operating systems. EDD operating loss increased primarily result $ billion increase cost revenue resulting from the number Xbox consoles sold and higher Xbox unit costs, partially offset the revenue growth. The significant impact Halo fiscal year also contributed the increase fiscal year operating loss. Headcount-related costs increased %, driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. PAGE Part Item Corporate-Level Activity ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Corporate-level activity $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( )% % Certain corporate-level results are not allocated our segments. Those results include expenses related corporate operations associated with broad-based sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, information technology, corporate development and procurement activities, research and development and other costs, and legal settlements and contingencies. Fiscal year compared fiscal year Corporate-level expenses increased primarily driven increased headcount-related costs offset decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. Headcount-related costs increased %, driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. incurred $ million legal charges during the twelve months ended June , , primarily related antitrust and unfair competition consumer class actions, intellectual property claims, and extension payment Sun Microsystems, Inc. under our Limited Patent Covenant and Standstill Agreement. incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year which included settlement expense $ million related our settlement with RealNetworks, Inc. well other intellectual property and antitrust matters, \x80 million ($ million) fine imposed the European Commission July related its decision its competition law investigation Microsoft, and extension payment Sun Microsystems, Inc. Fiscal year compared fiscal year Corporate-level expenses decreased primarily reflecting decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies partially offset increased headcount-related costs. incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year compared $ billion legal charges incurred during fiscal year primarily related settlements with Novell, Inc., Gateway, IBM, and other antitrust and competition law matters. Headcount-related costs increased %, driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation. Outlook Our outlook for fiscal year follows: Client expect revenue grow reflecting improvement the commercial and retail portion the business due increased acceptance Windows Vista. expect shipments grow % % for fiscal year . believe that unit growth rates will higher the consumer segment than the business segment and higher emerging markets than mature markets. Server and Tools expect continued momentum from recent product launches and benefit from the upcoming launches the new versions SQL Server, Windows Server, and Visual Studio the second half fiscal year . Online Services Business expect increased growth online advertising revenue the portals, channels, and communications services continue expand globally and the overall Internet advertising industry continues expand. May , agreed acquire aQuantive, Inc., digital marketing company, for approximately $ billion cash. expect complete this transaction August . This acquisition will enable strengthen relationships with advertisers, agencies and publishers enhancing our advertising platforms and services. The acquisition also provides with increased depth building and supporting next generation advertising solutions and environments such cross media planning and video- -demand. Microsoft Business Division expect revenue continue increase fiscal year due increased customer acceptance the Microsoft Office system. continue develop plans grow revenue new areas such unified communications, enterprise content management, collaboration tools, business intelligence, and through our existing portfolio Microsoft Dynamics products. PAGE Part Item Entertainment and Devices Division expect revenue increase due the increased installed base the Xbox console and from the release Halo , new Xbox game. Revenue from existing mobility and embedded devices expected increase due unit volume increases Windows Mobile software driven increased market demand for phone-enabled devices and Windows Embedded operating systems. Operating Expenses Cost Revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Cost revenue $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % 4ppt 2ppt Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, warranty costs, inventory write-downs, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. Cost revenue increased fiscal year primarily driven the Xbox charge, increased Windows Vista product costs, increased OSB data center costs, and costs associated with the growth consulting services. Cost revenue increased fiscal year mainly due $ billion increase EDD result increase the number total Xbox consoles sold and higher Xbox unit costs. Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Research and development $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % ( )ppt \x96 Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Research and development costs increased during fiscal year primarily due increased headcount-related costs which grew %, reflecting % growth headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Research and development costs increased during fiscal year primarily due increased development costs associated with upcoming offerings and corporate research activities. Headcount-related costs increased % during fiscal year , driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. PAGE Part Item Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Sales and marketing $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % \x96 \x96 Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased during fiscal year primarily because increased headcount-related costs and increased marketing costs related recent product launches. Headcount-related costs increased % during fiscal year , driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Sales and marketing expenses increased during fiscal year primarily because increased headcount-related costs, investments partner marketing and product launch-related spending. Headcount-related costs increased % during fiscal year , driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus General and administrative $ , $ , $ , ( )% ( )% percent revenue % % % ( )ppt ( )ppt General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense and other headcount-related costs associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources, other administrative headcount, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative costs decreased during fiscal year primarily reflecting decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies, partially offset increased headcount-related costs. During fiscal year , incurred $ million legal charges primarily related antitrust and unfair competition consumer class actions, intellectual property claims, and extension payment Sun Microsystems, Inc. compared $ billion legal charges fiscal year . Headcount-related costs increased % during fiscal year , driven % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. General and administrative costs decreased fiscal year primarily reflecting decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. During fiscal year , incurred $ billion legal charges primarily related antitrust and unfair competition consumer class actions, intellectual property claims, and extension payment Sun Microsystems, Inc. Legal charges fiscal year also included settlement expense $ million related our settlement with RealNetworks, Inc. and the \x80 million ($ million) European Commission fine. Headcount-related costs increased % during fiscal year , driven % increase headcount and increase salaries for existing headcount. incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year . PAGE Part Item Investment Income and Other The components investment income and other were follows: ( millions) Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Other, net ( ) Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , For fiscal year , dividends and interest income declined, reflecting decline the average balance dividend and interest-bearing investments, partly offset higher interest rates received our fixed-income investments. For fiscal year , dividends and interest income increased due higher interest rates received our fixed-income investments, partially offset decline the average balance dividend and interest-bearing investments result the $ billion special dividend paid December , , and stock repurchases made throughout fiscal year . For fiscal year , net gains investments increased primarily due lower other-than-temporary impairments and gains sales fixed-income investments the current period compared losses fiscal year , partly offset fewer gains the sale equity investments. Other-than-temporary impairments fiscal year were not material and were $ million fiscal year . Net gains investments decreased fiscal year primarily due increased net losses sales fixed-income investments, higher other-than-temporary impairments, and fewer net gains equity investments fiscal year compared fiscal year . For fiscal year , other-than-temporary impairments were $ million, compared $ million fiscal year . The increase other-than-temporary impairments fiscal year was driven planned sales certain investments unrealized loss position order raise funds for the $ billion tender offer announced July , . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other than temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other than temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash collateral recorded asset with corresponding liability. anticipate that the magnitude securities lent under this program will remain relatively consistent during the fiscal year. use derivative instruments manage exposures interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency markets and facilitate portfolio diversification. Derivative losses during fiscal were primarily driven net losses time value foreign currency contracts used hedge anticipated foreign currency revenues. During fiscal year , experienced lower net losses derivatives compared fiscal year primarily due net gains non-designated equity derivatives fiscal compared net losses fiscal and higher net gains commodity positions fiscal driven increases the related commodity indices. These gains were partially offset higher net losses time value foreign exchange contracts used hedge anticipated foreign currency revenues and higher net losses interest rate derivative contracts fiscal . Net derivative losses fiscal year were primarily related losses equity derivatives, interest rate derivatives, and foreign currency contracts, partly offset gains related commodity positions used provide portfolio diversification. Gains and losses arising from derivatives not designated accounting hedges are large part economically offset unrealized losses and gains, respectively, the underlying securities which are recorded component other comprehensive income. Commodity derivatives are held for the purpose portfolio diversification. PAGE Part Item Other, net fiscal year includes $ million gains that resulted from the restructuring joint venture relationships between Microsoft and NBC related MSNBC Cable . and MSNBC Interactive News, . Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for fiscal years , , and was %, %, and %, respectively. The fiscal year rate reflects recurring effective tax rate % offset $ million reduction resulting from various changes tax positions taken prior periods, related primarily favorable developments IRS position and multiple foreign audit assessments. During fiscal year , recorded tax benefit $ million from the resolution state audits and recorded charge \x80 million ($ million) from the European Commission fine which was not tax deductible. The tax rate was lower from the reversal previously accrued taxes and from IRS settlement. Financial Condition Cash and equivalents and short-term investments totaled $ billion and $ billion June , and , respectively. Equity and other investments were $ billion and $ billion June , and , respectively. Our investments consist primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly .-dollar-denominated securities, but also includes foreign-denominated securities order diversify financial risk. result the special dividend paid the second quarter fiscal year and shares repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $ billion June , . Our retained deficit not expected impact our future ability operate pay dividends given our continuing profitability and strong cash and financial position. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, that are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. For certain other licensing arrangements, revenue attributable undelivered elements, including free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis for Windows and previous operating systems, based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the life cycle the related product. Other unearned revenue includes services, Microsoft Dynamics business solution products, Xbox Live subscriptions, advertising, and platform for which have been paid upfront and earn the revenue when provide the service software, otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected recognition unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Recognition Unearned Revenue Three months ended: September , $ , December , , March , , June , , Thereafter , Unearned revenue $ , PAGE Part Item Cash Flows Fiscal year compared fiscal year Cash flow from operations increased $ billion due increase cash received from customers driven % revenue growth, along with $ billion decrease cash outflow for other current assets primarily reflecting changes inventory. Cash used for financing increased $ billion. Several events occurred during fiscal year that affected cash used for financing. issued $ billion common stock, including $ billion related million call options exercised JPMorgan December . also completed our tender offer August , , which was included the $ billion common stock repurchases. Cash from investing decreased $ billion due $ billion decline securities lending activity where cash collateral received from the counterparty along with $ billion spent acquisitions companies and additions property and equipment. These impacts were partially offset $ billion increase net cash from combined investment purchases, sales, and maturities. Fiscal year compared fiscal year Cash flow from operations decreased $ billion primarily due increased payments fund $ million increase Xbox inventory and product costs and increased payments employees resulting from % growth headcount. These factors were partially offset increased cash receipts from customers driven our % revenue growth and $ billion increase unearned revenue. Cash used financing decreased $ billion driven $ billion reduction cash dividend payments. This impact was partially offset $ billion increase common stock repurchases. Net cash from investing decreased $ billion driven primarily $ billion decrease cash from combined purchase, sales, and maturities investments and $ million increase additions property and equipment. These factors were partially offset $ billion net cash proceeds from our securities lending program. have material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment under which incurred rental expense totaling $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal year , , and , respectively. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. May , announced that had entered into agreement purchase aQuantive, Inc. for approximately $ billion cash. expect complete this transaction August . During fiscal years and , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Per Share Dividend Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) (Fiscal year ) September , $ November , $ December , December , $ February , $ March , March , $ May , $ June , June , $ August , $ September , (Fiscal year ) September , $ November , $ December , December , $ February , $ March , March , $ May , $ June , June , $ August , $ September , PAGE Part Item July , , announced the completion the repurchase program initially approved our Board Directors July , buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. During fiscal year , repurchased million shares, $ billion, our common stock under this plan. July , , announced that our Board Directors authorized two new share repurchase programs: $ billion tender offer, which was completed August , ; and authorization for additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program with expiration June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares common stock, % our common shares outstanding, for approximately $ billion price per share $ . August , , announced that the authorization for the $ billion ongoing share repurchase program had been increased approximately $ billion. result, are authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . June , , approximately $ billion remained the $ billion approved repurchase amount. believe existing cash and equivalents and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations, should sufficient meet operating requirements, regular quarterly dividends, and planned share repurchases. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and short-term investments, well equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. regularly assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations provide indemnifications varying scope and amount certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) Interpretation . , Guarantor\x92 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees Indebtedness Others . consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any material liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. PAGE Part Item Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) ( ) Payments due period Fiscal Years - - and thereafter Total Long-term debt $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 Construction commitments ( )( ) \x96 \x96 \x96 Lease obligations: Capital leases \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Operating leases ( ) , Purchase commitments ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Other long-term liabilities ( ) \x97 \x96 Total contractual obligations $ , $ , $ $ $ , ( ) have excluded the $ million long-term contingent liability related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits referred Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) the timing and amount resolved cash versus vouchers subject uncertainty. ( ) have certain commitments for the construction buildings. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Our future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases comprise the majority the operating lease obligations presented above. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) The amount presented above purchase and construction commitments includes all known open purchase orders and all known contracts that are take- -pay contracts. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and our cash flows from operations. ( ) have excluded other obligations $ billion from other long-term liabilities presented above the amount that will settled cash not known. have also excluded non-cash items $ million and unearned revenue $ billion. May , entered into Agreement and Plan Merger with aQuantive, Inc. acquire the company for approximately $ billion cash. part the Agreement and Plan Merger, are required pay $ million certain events occur that result the merger not being completed. Due the nature this obligation, this amount has not been accrued for included the above schedule. The acquisition expected completed August . RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS June , the FASB issued Interpretation . (\x93FIN . \x94), Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . , which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty income taxes recognized enterprise\x92 financial statements accordance with FASB Statement . , Accounting for Income Taxes . The Interpretation provides recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement tax position taken expected taken tax return. Under FIN . , the Company may recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such position should measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN . also provides guidance derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting interim periods, disclosure, and transition. FIN . effective for beginning July , . Based our current assessment, the adoption FIN . expected decrease beginning retained earnings $ million $ million upon adoption. June , the FASB ratified the Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) consensus EITF Issue . - , \x93Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits Pursuant FASB Statement . .\x94 EITF Issue . - requires companies accrue the costs compensated absences under sabbatical similar benefit PAGE Part Item arrangement over the requisite service period. EITF Issue . - effective for beginning July , . The cumulative effect the application this consensus prior period results should recognized through cumulative-effect adjustment retained earnings the beginning the year adoption. Elective retrospective application also permitted. not expect the application this consensus have material impact our financial statements. fiscal year , adopted Staff Accounting Bulletin (\x93SAB\x94) . , Considering the Effects Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Current Year Misstatements . SAB . requires companies quantify misstatements using both balance sheet (iron curtain) and income statement (rollover) approach evaluate whether either approach results error that material light relevant quantitative and qualitative factors, and provides for one-time cumulative effect transition adjustment. The adoption SAB . did not have impact our financial statements. September , the FASB issued SFAS . , Fair Value Measurements , which defines fair value, establishes framework for measuring fair value generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS . does not require any new fair value measurements, but provides guidance how measure fair value providing fair value hierarchy used classify the source the information. This statement effective for beginning July , . currently are assessing the potential impact that adoption SFAS . would have our financial statements. February , the FASB issued SFAS . , The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . SFAS . gives the irrevocable option carry many financial assets and liabilities fair values, with changes fair value recognized earnings. SFAS . effective for beginning July , , although early adoption permitted. are currently assessing the potential impact that adoption SFAS . will have our financial statements. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, accounting for income taxes, and accounting for stock-based compensation. account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants Statement Position (\x93SOP\x94) - , Software Revenue Recognition . The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94) fair value exists for those elements. For some our products, customers receive certain elements our products over period time. These elements include free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The fair value these elements recognized over the estimated life cycle for the Windows and previous operating systems. For Windows Vista, there are significant undelivered elements and accordingly, license revenue deferred for Windows Vista sales. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities , and SAB Topic , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities , provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge PAGE Part Item recorded and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry, and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (July for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This requires significant judgments including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. allocate goodwill reporting units based the reporting unit expected benefit from the combination. evaluate our reporting units annual basis and, necessary, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. account for research and development costs accordance with applicable accounting pronouncements, including SFAS . , Accounting for Research and Development Costs , and SFAS . , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . SFAS . specifies that costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product should charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. This generally shortly before the products are released manufacturing. determined that technological feasibility was reached with Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system during the second quarter fiscal year and accordingly, capitalized approximately $ million software development costs. The amortization these costs will included cost revenue over the estimated life the products. Previously, costs incurred prior technological feasibility were not material and were expensed incurred. The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , requires that estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our results operations, financial position, our cash flows. SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows. Accruals for tax contingencies are provided for accordance with the requirements SFAS . . account for stock-based compensation accordance with SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment . Under the fair value recognition provisions this statement, share-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the fair value the award and recognized expense over the requisite service period. Determining the fair value share-based awards the grant date requires judgment, including estimating expected dividends. addition, judgment also required estimating the amount share-based awards that are expected forfeited. PAGE Part Item actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results operations could materially impacted. account for product warranties accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies . provide for the estimated costs hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranty, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and country which business, but generally include technical support, parts, and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. PAGE Part Item Statement Management\x92 Responsibility for Financial Statements Management responsible for the preparation the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based management\x92 estimates and judgments, have been prepared conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. The Company maintains accounting and internal control systems provide reasonable assurance reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented written policies, organizational structure providing division responsibilities, careful selection and training qualified personnel, and program internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent auditors, audit and render opinion the consolidated financial statements and management\x92 report its assessment and the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely independent directors the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors and our independent auditors ensure that each meeting its responsibilities and discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access the Audit Committee. Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer PAGE Part Item ', 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK are exposed foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity, and commodity price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results operations, financial position, and cash flows. hedge portion anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed-income securities and interest rate derivatives are subject primarily interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and structured minimize credit risk. Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio and equity derivatives are subject price risk, and are generally not hedged. However, use put-call collars hedge our price risk certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. Commodity derivatives held for the purpose portfolio diversification are subject commodity price risk. use value- -risk (\x93VaR\x94) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VaR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VaR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. The model used for currencies, equities, and commodities geometric Brownian motion, which allows incorporation optionality with regard these risk exposures. For interest rate risk, exposures such key rate durations and spread durations are used calculations that reflect the principle that fixed-income security prices revert maturity value over time. VaR calculated computing the exposures each holding\x92 market value range over , equity, fixed-income, foreign exchange, and commodity risk factors. The exposures are then used compute the parameters distribution potential changes the total market value all holdings, taking into account the weighted historical volatilities the different rates and prices and the weighted historical correlations among the different rates and prices. The VaR then calculated the total loss that will not exceeded the percentile confidence level , alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the VaR out , cases. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. Certain securities our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. hedge the value portion these securities through the use derivative contracts such put-call collars. these arrangements, hedge security\x92 equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most all the benefits the security\x92 appreciation above the sold call strike. also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. have incurred material impairment charges related these securities previous periods. The VaR amounts disclosed below are used risk management tool and reflect estimate potential reductions fair value our portfolio. Losses fair value over the specified holding period can exceed the reported VaR significant amounts and can also accumulate over longer time horizon than the specified holding period used the VaR analysis. VaR amounts are not necessarily reflective potential accounting losses, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with . GAAP. VaR numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency rate, equity price, and commodity price risks. These VaR numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. use historical data estimate VaR. Given the reliance historical data, VaR most effective estimating risk exposures markets which there are fundamental changes shifts market conditions. inherent limitation VaR that the distribution past changes market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions future market risk. The following table sets forth the one-day VaR for substantially all our positions and for the years ended June , and : ( millions) Year ended June , Risk Categories June , June , Average High Low Interest rates $ $ $ $ $ Currency rates Equity prices Commodity prices Total one-day VaR for the combined risk categories was $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VaR % less June , , and % less June , , than the sum the separate risk categories the above table due the diversification benefit the overall portfolio. PAGE Part Item ', 'item 8. ': "FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Investment income and other , , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments (including securities pledged collateral $ , and $ , ) , , Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ and $ , , Inventories , , Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net Deferred income taxes , , Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Securities lending payable , , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Other long-term liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ , and $ , ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , Stock-based compensation , , , Net recognized gains investments ( ) ( ) ( ) Stock option income tax benefits \x96 \x96 Excess tax benefits from stock-based payment arrangements ( ) ( ) \x96 Deferred income taxes ( ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other current assets ( , ) ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities ( ) ( ) Other long-term liabilities , , , Net cash from operations , , , Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based payment arrangements \x96 Other ( ) \x96 ( ) Net cash used financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired ( , ) ( ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Securities lending payable ( ) , \x96 Net cash from investing , , , Net change cash and equivalents ( ) , ( , ) Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock option income tax benefits/(deficiencies) ( ) ( ) Other, net ( ) Balance, end period , , , Retained earnings (deficit) Balance, beginning period ( , ) ( , ) , Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Net unrealized gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) Net unrealized gains/(losses) investments ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Comprehensive income , , , Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. PRINCIPLES CONSOLIDATION The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which exercise significant influence but not control and are not the primary beneficiary are accounted for using the equity method. Investments which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee and which not have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the cost method. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies, product warranties, product life cycles, product returns, and stock-based compensation forfeiture rates; assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; estimating the fair value and goodwill impairment for our reporting units; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited Other Comprehensive Income (\x93OCI\x94). REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. enter into certain arrangements where are obligated deliver multiple products and services (multiple elements). these arrangements, generally allocate the total revenue among the elements based the sales price each element when sold separately (vendor-specific objective evidence). Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEM\x94), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped. portion the revenue related certain products, which include all Windows and previous operating systems, recorded unearned due undelivered elements including, some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the vendor-specific objective evidence fair value for those elements using the residual method. Under the residual method, the total fair value the undelivered elements, indicated vendor-specific objective evidence, recorded unearned, and the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount recorded unearned for the undelivered elements recognized revenue related delivered elements. Unearned revenue due undelivered elements recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Revenue related Windows Vista not subject similar deferral because there are significant undelivered elements. Revenue from multi-year licensing arrangements are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include rights receive future versions software product when-and- -available basis under Open and Select volume licensing programs (Software Assurance). addition, other multi-year licensing PAGE Part Item arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis under Open, Select, and Enterprise Agreement volume licensing programs. Premier support services agreements, MSN Internet Access subscriptions, Xbox Live, and Microsoft Developer Network subscriptions are also accounted for subscriptions. Revenue related our Xbox game console and other hardware components recognized upon shipment the product retailers. Revenue related games published recognized when those games have been delivered retailers. Revenue related games published third parties for use the Xbox platform recognized when manufactured for the game publishers. Online advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Consulting revenue for fixed-price services arrangements recognized based percentage completion. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for developer tools software, games, computer hardware, and Xbox, are accrued when the related revenue recognized. Provisions are recorded for estimated returns, concessions, warranties, and bad debts. COST REVENUE Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, warranty costs, inventory write-downs, costs associated with the delivery consulting services, and the amortization capitalized research and development costs associated with software products that have reached technological feasibility. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. The amortization these costs included cost revenue over the estimated life the products. determined that technological feasibility was reached with Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system during the second quarter fiscal year and accordingly, capitalized approximately $ million software development costs. Previously, costs incurred prior technological feasibility were not material and were expensed incurred. SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other marketing-related programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. INCOME TAXES Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. The fair value these investments approximates their carrying value. general, investments with original maturities greater than three months and remaining maturities less than one year are classified short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method. Changes market value are reflected OCI (excluding other-than-temporary impairments). PAGE Part Item Equity and other investments may include both debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Changes market value are reflected OCI (excluding other-than-temporary impairments). All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities enhance investment income. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash collateral recorded asset with corresponding liability. Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology quarterly basis that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. use derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, equity price, interest rate and credit risks, enhance returns, and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instrument designated fair-value hedge, the gain loss recognized earnings the period change together with the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the risk being hedged. For derivative instrument designated cash-flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component OCI and subsequently recognized earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss recognized earnings. For options designated either fair-value cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges for accounting purposes are recognized earnings. Foreign Currency Risk. Certain assets, liabilities, and forecasted transactions are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Options are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash-flow hedging instruments under Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Certain non- . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair-value hedging instruments under SFAS . . Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies and manage other foreign currency exposures. Equities Price Risk. Equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, use and designate options hedge fair values certain equity securities. determine the security, selected for hedging evaluating market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Certain options, futures and swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , are also used manage equity exposures. Interest Rate Risk. Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. use exchange-traded option and futures contracts and over-the-counter swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , hedge interest rate risk. Other Derivatives. Swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , are used manage exposures credit risks, enhance returns, and facilitate portfolio diversification. addition, may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. \x93 PAGE Part Item Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets are also considered derivatives cases where physical delivery the assets not taken the earliest available delivery date. All derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments are recorded fair value, with changes value recognized earnings during the period change. ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance beginning year Charged costs and expenses Write-offs and other Balance end year ( ) $ ( ) ( ) $ INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally three years less. GOODWILL Goodwill tested for impairment annual basis July , and between annual tests indicators potential impairment exist, using fair-value-based approach. impairment goodwill has been identified during any the periods presented. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one ten years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically and take into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. All our intangible assets are subject amortization. material impairments intangible assets have been identified during any the periods presented. PRODUCT WARRANTY provide for the estimated costs hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranty, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and country which business, but generally include technical support, parts, and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the estimated life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. PAGE Part Item RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS June , the FASB issued Interpretation . (\x93FIN . \x94), Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes\x97 interpretation FASB Statement . , which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty income taxes recognized enterprise\x92 financial statements accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes . The Interpretation provides recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement tax position taken expected taken tax return. Under FIN . , the Company may recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such position should measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN . also provides guidance derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting interim periods, disclosure, and transition. FIN . effective for beginning July , . Based our current assessment, the adoption FIN . expected decrease beginning retained earnings $ million $ million upon adoption. June , the FASB ratified the Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) consensus EITF Issue . - , \x93Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits Pursuant FASB Statement . .\x94 EITF Issue . - requires companies accrue the costs compensated absences under sabbatical similar benefit arrangement over the requisite service period. EITF Issue . - effective for beginning July , . The cumulative effect the application this consensus prior period results should recognized through cumulative-effect adjustment retained earnings the beginning the year adoption. Elective retrospective application also permitted. not expect the application this consensus have material impact our financial statements. fiscal year , adopted Staff Accounting Bulletin (\x93SAB\x94) . , Considering the Effects Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Current Year Misstatements . SAB . requires companies quantify misstatements using both balance sheet (iron curtain) and income statement (rollover) approach evaluate whether either approach results error that material light relevant quantitative and qualitative factors, and provides for one-time cumulative effect transition adjustment. The adoption SAB . did not have impact our financial statements. September , the FASB issued SFAS . , Fair Value Measurements , which defines fair value, establishes framework for measuring fair value generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS . does not require any new fair value measurements, but provides guidance how measure fair value providing fair value hierarchy used classify the source the information. This statement effective for beginning July , . currently are assessing the potential impact that adoption SFAS . would have our financial statements. February , the FASB issued SFAS . , The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . SFAS . gives the irrevocable option carry many financial assets and liabilities fair values, with changes fair value recognized earnings. SFAS . effective for beginning July , , although early adoption permitted. are currently assessing the potential impact that adoption SFAS . will have our financial statements. NOTE UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue comprised the following items: Volume licensing programs \x96 Represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Undelivered elements \x96 Represents free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. This revenue deferral applicable for Windows and previous operating systems shipped retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEM\x94), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs. The amount recorded unearned based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home and approximately % % the sales price for Windows PAGE Part Item Professional, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and one-half years for Windows operating systems. Other \x96 Represents payments for post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future, online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed, Microsoft Dynamics business solutions maintenance and enhancement billings, Xbox Live and other billings that are accounted for subscriptions, and other agreements where Microsoft committed the delivery future enhancements, products, services. The components unearned revenue were follows: ( millions) June Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other , , Unearned revenue $ , $ , Unearned revenue segment was follows: ( millions) June Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Microsoft Business Division , , Other segments Unearned revenue $ , $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE INVESTMENTS The components investments were follows: ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds ( ) Commercial paper \x96 \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , \x96 Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock \x96 \x96 \x96 Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 ( ) Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds ( ) \x96 Commercial paper , \x96 \x96 , , \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities , \x96 ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , \x96 , Municipal securities , ( ) , , \x96 Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock \x96 \x96 \x96 Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item Investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than and greater than months and their related fair values were follows: Less than months months greater Total ( millions) Fair value unrealized losses Fair value unrealized losses Fair value unrealized losses June , Mutual funds $ $ ( ) $ $ \x96 $ $ ( ) . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Foreign government bonds , ( ) \x96 , ( ) Mortgage backed securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Corporate notes and bonds ( ) ( ) ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Common stock and equivalents ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Less than months months greater Total ( millions) Fair value unrealized losses Fair value unrealized losses Fair value unrealized losses June , Mutual funds $ $ ( ) $ $ \x96 $ $ ( ) . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Foreign government bonds , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Mortgage backed securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Municipal securities , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Common stock and equivalents ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) June , , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed-income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed-income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities, and $ million related international equity securities. June , , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed-income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed-income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities, and $ million related international equity securities. Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. Management does not believe any unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairment based our evaluation available evidence June , . Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , , the recorded basis and estimated fair value these investments was $ million. June , , the recorded basis and estimated fair value these investments was $ million. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. PAGE Part Item The maturities debt securities, including fixed-maturity securities, June , were follows: ( millions) Cost basis Estimated fair value Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through ten years , , Due after ten years , , Total $ , $ , NOTE INVESTMENT INCOME AND OTHER The components investment income and other were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Income/(losses) from equity investees and other ( ) Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments include other-than-temporary impairments. These were not material fiscal year , were $ million fiscal year , and were $ million fiscal year . The decrease other-than-temporary impairments fiscal year and the increase fiscal year were driven planned sales certain investments unrealized loss position order raise funds for the $ billion tender offer announced July , . Realized gains and losses from sales available-for-sale securities (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) were $ million and $ million, respectively, fiscal year , $ billion and $ million, respectively, fiscal year , and $ billion and $ million, respectively, fiscal year . NOTE DERIVATIVES For derivative instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, did not have significant impact earnings for fiscal years , , . During fiscal year , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income and other. estimate that $ million net derivative gains included OCI will reclassified into earnings within the next months. significant amounts gains losses were reclassified from OCI into earnings result forecasted transactions that failed occur for fiscal years , , and . PAGE Part Item NOTE INVENTORIES ( millions) June Raw materials $ $ Work process \x96 Finished goods , Inventories $ , $ , NOTE PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT ( millions) June Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements , Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment , , Property and equipment, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Property and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed principally the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets. The useful lives for buildings range from five years, leasehold improvements generally range from two ten years \x96 representing the applicable lease terms plus reasonably assured extensions, computer equipment and software range from two three years, and furniture and equipment range from one five years. Land not depreciated. During fiscal years , , and , depreciation expense was $ billion, $ million, and $ million, respectively. The majority depreciation expense all years related computer equipment. NOTE GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill for fiscal years and segment were follows: ( millions) Balance June , Acquisitions Other Balance June , Acquisitions Other Balance June , Client $ $ $ \x96 $ $ $ ( ) $ Server and Tools ( ) ( ) Microsoft Business Division , \x96 , ( ) , Online Services Business ( ) Entertainment and Devices Division ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , test goodwill for impairment annually July the reporting unit level using fair value approach, accordance with the provisions SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . Our annual testing resulted impairments goodwill fiscal years and . event occurs circumstances change that would PAGE Part Item more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value, goodwill will evaluated for impairment between annual tests. During fiscal year , acquired the following entities for total consideration $ billion, which was primarily paid cash: \x95 Softricity, Inc., provider application virtualization and dynamic streaming technologies; \x95 TellMe Networks, Inc., company specializing speech-recognition technology providing outsourced, network-based, voice application platform; and \x95 other entities specializing areas such application security, desktop, and data management. result these acquisitions, recorded $ million goodwill, none which expected deductible for tax purposes. All the entities were consolidated with Microsoft since their respective acquisition dates. The purchase price allocations for these acquisitions are preliminary and subject revision more detailed analyses are completed and additional information about fair value assets and liabilities becomes available. Any change the estimated fair value the net assets the acquired companies will change the amount the purchase price allocable goodwill. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects these acquisitions, individually and aggregate, were not material. NOTE INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components finite-lived intangible assets were follows: ( millions) June Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Contract-based $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Technology-based ( ) ( ) Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( , ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ During fiscal year and , recorded additions intangible assets $ million and $ million, respectively. estimate that have significant residual value related our intangible assets. The components finite-lived intangible assets acquired during fiscal years and were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount Weighted average life Amount Weighted average life Contract-based $ years $ years Technology-based years years Marketing-related years years Customer-related years years Total $ $ Intangible asset additions include $ million technology-based intangible assets with weighted-average life years, and $ million other intangible assets with weighted-average life years, related the acquisitions Softricity Inc., TellMe Networks, Inc., and the remaining entities acquired. PAGE Part Item Acquired intangibles are generally amortized straight-line basis over weighted average lives. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal year , $ million for fiscal year , and $ million for fiscal year . The estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets June , follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount $ and thereafter Total $ NOTE INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Current taxes: . Federal $ , $ , $ , . State and Local International Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes (benefits) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , . and international components income before income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes were follows: Year Ended June Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Foreign earnings taxed lower rates ( )% ( )% ( )% Examination settlements \x96 ( )% ( )% Other reconciling items % % ( )% Effective rate % % % PAGE Part Item The other reconciling items includes the impact $ million reduction resulting from various changes tax positions taken prior periods, related primarily favorable developments IRS position and multiple foreign audit assessments. The other reconciling item includes the impact the $ million non-deductible European Commission fine. The other reconciling items include $ million repatriation tax benefit under the American Jobs Creation Act . The components the deferred tax assets and liabilities were follows: ( millions) June Deferred income tax assets: Stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , Other expense items , , Unearned revenue , Impaired investments Other revenue items Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: International earnings $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Unrealized gain investments ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Reported : Current deferred tax assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred tax assets , , Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. have not provided deferred . income taxes foreign withholding taxes temporary differences approximately $ billion resulting from earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the United States. The amount unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences approximately $ million. The American Jobs Creation Act (the \x93Act\x94) was enacted October . The Act creates temporary incentive for . corporations repatriate foreign subsidiary earnings providing elective % dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. Under these provisions, repatriated approximately $ million dividends subject the elective % dividends received deduction and recorded corresponding tax provision benefit $ million from the reversal previously provided . deferred tax liabilities these unremitted foreign subsidiary earnings . The dividend was paid June . Income taxes paid were $ billion fiscal year , $ billion fiscal year , and $ billion fiscal year . Tax Contingencies . are subject income taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related assets and liabilities. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. are regularly under audit tax authorities. Accruals for tax contingencies are provided for accordance with the requirements SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies . PAGE Part Item Although believe have appropriate support for the positions taken our tax returns, have recorded liability for our best estimate the probable loss certain these positions, the non-current portion which included other long-term liabilities. believe that our accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open years, based our assessment many factors including past experience and interpretations tax law applied the facts each matter, which matters result primarily from inter-company transfer pricing, restructuring foreign operations, tax benefits from the Foreign Sales Corporation and Extra Territorial Income tax rules, the amount research and experimentation tax credits claimed, state income taxes, and certain other matters. Although believe our recorded assets and liabilities are reasonable, tax regulations are subject interpretation and tax litigation inherently uncertain; therefore our assessments can involve both series complex judgments about future events and rely heavily estimates and assumptions. Although believe that the estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, the final determination tax audit settlements and any related litigation could materially different than that which reflected historical income tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. were settle audit matter under litigation, could have material effect our income tax provision, net income, cash flows the period periods for which that determination made. Due the complexity involved are not able estimate the range reasonably possible losses excess amounts recorded. The Internal Revenue Service (\x93IRS\x94) has completed and closed its audits our consolidated federal income tax returns through . The IRS currently conducting audits our consolidated federal income tax return for tax years through . NOTE OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES ( millions) June Tax contingencies $ , $ , Legal contingencies , Product warranty \x96 Other Other long-term liabilities $ , $ , NOTE STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , July , , announced the completion the repurchase program initially approved our Board Directors July , buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. July , , also announced that our Board Directors authorized two new share repurchase programs: $ billion tender offer, which was completed August , ; and authorization for additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program with expiration June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares common stock, % our common shares outstanding, for approximately $ billion price per share $ . August , , announced that the authorization for the $ billion ongoing share repurchase program had been increased approximately PAGE Part Item $ billion. result, are authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . June , , approximately $ billion remained the $ billion approved repurchase amount. During fiscal year , repurchased million shares, $ billion, our common stock under previously approved plan. Under these repurchase plans, have made the following share repurchases: ( millions) Fiscal year ( ) ( ) ( ) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount First quarter $ , $ , $ Second quarter , , Third quarter , , , Fourth quarter , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Approximately million shares common stock for approximately $ billion were repurchased under our tender offer the first quarter fiscal year . All other amounts repurchased were repurchased under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors July , . ( ) All amounts repurchased fiscal years and were repurchased under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors July , . fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Date Record Total Amount ( millions) Payment Date September , $ November , $ December , December , $ February , $ March , March , $ May , $ June , June , $ August , $ ( ) September , ( ) The dividend declared June , will paid after the filing date this report Form - and was included other current liabilities June , . fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Date Record Total Amount ( millions) Payment Date September , $ November , $ December , December , $ February , $ March , March , $ May , $ June , June , $ August , $ ( ) September , ( ) The dividend declared June , was included other current liabilities June , . PAGE Part Item NOTE OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The activity other comprehensive income and related tax effects were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Net unrealized gains/(losses) derivative instruments: Unrealized gains, net tax effect $ , $ , and $ $ $ $ \x97 Reclassification adjustment for gains included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) Net unrealized gains/(losses) investments: Unrealized gains/(losses), net tax effect $ , $( ) , and $ ( ) Reclassification adjustment for gains included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains/(losses) investments ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ $ ( ) $ Certain activity within the unrealized gains/(losses) and reclassification adjustment line items and has been revised correct the prior period presentation. These revisions did not affect other comprehensive income/(loss) nor any the subtotals the table above. The components accumulated other comprehensive income were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Net unrealized gains derivative instruments $ $ $ Net unrealized gains investments , , , Translation adjustments and other Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , NOTE EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS Effective July , , adopted SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment, using the modified prospective application transition method. Because the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Stock-Based Compensation, and SFAS . ( ) were materially consistent under our equity plans, the adoption SFAS . ( ) did not have significant impact our financial position our results operations. Prior our adoption SFAS . ( ), benefits tax deductions excess recognized compensation costs were reported operating cash flows. SFAS . ( ) requires excess tax benefits reported financing cash inflow rather than reduction taxes paid. The stock-based compensation and related income tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Total stock-based compensation $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefits related stock-based compensation $ $ $ PAGE Part Item Employee Stock Purchase Plan. have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan recognized accordance with SFAS . ( ). Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the last day each three-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. Employees purchased the following shares: (Shares millions) Shares purchased Average price per share $ $ $ June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. Savings Plan. have savings plan the United States that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, and number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. Stock Plans. have stock plans for directors and for officers, employees, consultants, and advisors. June , , aggregate million shares were authorized for future grant under our stock plans, which cover stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. Awards that expire are canceled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. The options transferred JPMorgan Chase Bank (\x93JPMorgan\x94) (see below) fiscal year have been removed from our plans; the options transferred JPMorgan that expired without being exercised are not available for grant under any our plans. issue new shares satisfy stock option exercises. November , , our shareholders approved amendments the stock plans that allowed our Board Directors adjust eligible options, unvested stock awards, and shared performance stock awards maintain their pre-dividend value after the $ special dividend. Additional awards were granted for options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards the ratio post- and pre-special dividend stock price the -dividend date. Strike prices for options were decreased the same ratio. Stock-based compensation was not affected this adjustment. result this approval and payment the $ special dividend December , , adjustment the prices and number shares existing awards was made resulting total million options and million stock awards being issued adjust the outstanding awards. addition, the target shared performance stock awards were increased million shares. Stock Awards and Shared Performance Stock Awards. Stock awards are grants that entitle the holder shares common stock the award vests. Our stock awards generally vest over five-year period. Shared Performance Stock Awards (\x93SPSAs\x94) are form stock award which the number shares ultimately received depends our business performance against specified performance targets. The performance period for SPSAs issued fiscal years , , and was July , through June , (January , through June , for certain executive officers). Following the end the performance period, the Compensation Committee the Board Directors determined that the number shares stock awards issued was million, based the actual performance against metrics established for the performance period. One-third the awards vested fiscal year . additional one-third the awards will vest over each the following two years. Because the SPSAs covered three-year period, SPSAs issued fiscal year and were given only newly hired and promoted employees eligible receive SPSAs. The Company granted SPSAs for fiscal year with performance period July , through June , . the end the performance period, the number shares stock subject the award determined multiplying the target award percentage ranging from % %. The percentage determined based performance against metrics for the performance period, determined the Compensation Committee the Board Directors its sole discretion. additional % the total stock and stock awards will available PAGE Part Item additional awards participants based individual performance. One-quarter the shares stock subject each award will vest following the end the performance period, and additional one-quarter the shares will vest over each the following three years. measure the fair value SAs and SPSAs based upon the market price the underlying common stock the date grant, reduced the present value estimated future dividends. SAs and SPSAs are amortized over their applicable vesting period (generally three five years) using the straight-line method. The fair value each award grant estimated the date grant using the following assumptions: ( millions) Dividend per share (quarterly amounts) $ - $ $ - $ $ Interest rates range % - % % - % % - % During fiscal year , the following activity occurred under our existing plans: Shares ( millions) Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Stock awards: Nonvested balance June , $ Granted Vested ( ) Forfeited ( ) Nonvested balance June , $ Shared performance stock awards: Nonvested balance June , $ Granted Vested ( ) Forfeited ( ) Nonvested balance June , $ June , , there were $ billion and $ million total unrecognized compensation costs related SAs and SPSAs, respectively. These costs are expected recognized over weighted average period years and years, respectively. SPSAs granted fiscal year include adjustments for estimated performance against performance targets. During the months ended June , and June , , the following activity occurred under our plans: ( millions, except fair values) Fiscal Year Fiscal Year Stock awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Shared performance stock awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Stock Options. fiscal year , began granting employees stock awards rather than stock options part our equity compensation plans. Since then, stock options issued employees have been issued primarily conjunction with business acquisitions. Nonqualified stock options were granted our directors under our non-employee director stock plan. Nonqualified and incentive stock options were granted our officers and employees under our employee stock plans. Options granted between and generally vest over four and PAGE Part Item one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted after vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Approximately million stock options were granted conjunction with business acquisitions during fiscal years and , respectively. stock options were granted during the year ended June , . During fiscal year , completed employee stock option transfer program whereby employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested options with strike price $ higher JPMorgan. The options transferred JPMorgan were amended and restated upon transfer contain terms and conditions typical equity option transactions entered into between sophisticated financial counterparties arm\x92 length using standard terms and definitions for equity derivatives. result this program, recorded additional stock-based compensation expense $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) which was recorded the second quarter fiscal year . December , Morgan Chase Bank (\x93JPMorgan\x94) exercised approximately million call options for $ billion average price per share $ . The call options were among million options acquired JPMorgan fiscal year through our employee stock option transfer program. The other approximately million options expired unexercised. Employee stock options outstanding were follows: Shares ( millions) Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term (years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( millions) Balance, June , $ Granted Exercised ( ) Canceled ( ) Forfeited ( ) Balance, June , $ $ , Exercisable, June , $ $ , Included the options outstanding balance are approximately million options that were granted conjunction with business acquisitions. While these options are included the options outstanding balance, they are excluded from the weighted average exercise prices presented. These options have exercise price range $ $ and weighted average exercise price $ . During fiscal years , , and the following activity occurred under our plans: ( millions) Total intrinsic value stock options exercised $ $ $ Total fair value stock awards vested Total fair value shared performance stock awards vested \x96 \x96 Cash received and income tax benefits from stock option exercises were $ billion and $ million, respectively, for fiscal year . NOTE EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using PAGE Part Item the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components basic and diluted earnings per share are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect employee stock options and awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings per share: Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ For the years ended June , , , and , million, million, and million shares, respectively, were attributable outstanding stock options and were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices the stock options were greater than equal the average price the common shares, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. For the year ended June , , million shared performance stock awards, out the million targeted amount outstanding, have been excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the number shares ultimately issued contingent our performance against metrics established for the performance period, discussed Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plans. NOTE COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES have committed $ million for constructing new buildings. have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million, fiscal years , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount $ and thereafter $ , connection with various operating leases, issued residual value guarantees, which provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. During , exercised provision the operating lease agreements purchase the outstanding portion certain operating leases for approximately $ million and are longer subject the residual value guarantees. provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. addition, also provide indemnification PAGE Part Item against credit risk several geographical locations our volume license resellers case the resellers fail collect from the end user. Due the nature the indemnification provided our resellers, cannot estimate the fair value, nor determine the total nominal amount the indemnification. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . , Guarantor\x92 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees Indebtedness Others . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. provide for the estimated costs hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranty, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and country which business, but generally include technical support, parts, and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software warranty, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the estimated life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. July , expanded our global Xbox warranty coverage three years from the date purchase for general hardware failure indicated three flashing red lights. The basic Xbox console warranty remains place with warranty period one year from the date purchase most geographies. The changes our aggregate product warranty liabilities, which are included other current liabilities and other long term-liabilities our balance sheets, were follows: ( millions) Amount Balance July , $ Accruals for warranties issued Adjustments pre-existing warranties ( ) Settlements warranty claims ( ) Balance June , Accruals for warranties issued ( ) Adjustments pre-existing warranties Settlements warranty claims ( ) Balance June , $ ( ) Includes warranty expense incurred result the expansion our Xbox warranty coverage discussed above. NOTE CONTINGENCIES Government competition law matters. March , the European Commission issued decision its competition law investigation . The Commission concluded that infringed European competition law refusing license our competitors certain protocol technology the Windows server operating systems and including streaming media playback features Windows desktop operating systems. The Commission ordered license the protocol technology our competitors and develop and make available version the Windows desktop operating system that does not include specified media playback software. The Commission also fined \x80 million ($ million). appealed the decision the Court First Instance. July , the European Commission determined that had not complied with the technical documentation requirements the Decision, and fined \x80 million ($ million). have appealed this fine the Court First Instance. have expensed and paid both fines, pending resolution the appeals. March , the European Commission announced new statement objections. The new statement objections claims that the pricing terms proposed for licensing certain server protocol technology required the March decision are \x93not PAGE Part Item reasonable.\x94 The statement objections threatens impose new fines \x80 , ($ , ) per day from December June , \x80 million ($ million) per day from June July , and \x80 million ($ million) per day beginning August . The maximum amount the potential fine June , $ billion. have submitted written response the statement objections and are seeking determine reasonable royalty rate with the Commission. December , the Korean Fair Trade Commission (\x93KFTC\x94) ruled that abused market dominant position and engaged unfair trade practices under the Korean Fair Trade Act. The KFTC stated violated the Act building instant messaging and media player features into the Windows operating system and streaming media technologies into the Windows server operating system. The KFTC imposed fine approximately $ million which have expensed and paid. The KFTC\x92 order issued February held that our integration these media and messaging features into the Windows and server operating systems was abuse monopoly power and unlawful tying violation the Korean Fair Trade Act. The order required develop and distribute Korea versions Windows and its successors that not include Windows Media Player Windows Messenger functionality. also may distribute second modified version Windows that contains the media and messenger features, long includes promotional links certain competing media players and instant messengers. have appealed the KFTC\x92 decision the Seoul High Court. May , the KFTC denied our motion for reconsideration its ruling, but also dropped the element its ruling that prohibited from including media player instant messaging functionality any product other than the Windows client operating system for which have % greater market share. other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state attorneys general have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. Antitrust, unfair competition, and overcharge class actions. large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits have been filed against various state and federal courts behalf various classes direct and indirect purchasers our operating system and certain other software products. obtained dismissals damages claims indirect purchasers under federal law and states. Courts refused certify classes two additional states. have reached agreements settle all claims states. Under the settlements, generally class members can obtain vouchers that entitle them reimbursed for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value vouchers that may issue varies state. will make available certain schools percentage those vouchers that are not issued claimed (one-half two-thirds depending the state). The total value vouchers ultimately issue will depend the number class members who make claims and are issued vouchers. The maximum value vouchers issued approximately $ billion. The actual costs these settlements will less than that maximum amount, depending the number class members and schools that are issued and redeem vouchers. The settlements all states but Iowa have received final court approval. Settlements Arkansas and Wisconsin received final court approval March . The Iowa case settled February and the court gave its preliminary approval the settlement April . The cases Mississippi have not been settled. estimate the total cost resolve all these cases will range between $ billion and $ billion. The actual cost depends factors such the quantity and mix products for which claims will made, the number eligible class members who ultimately use the vouchers, the nature hardware and software that acquired using the vouchers, and the cost administering the claims. June , , have recorded liability related these claims approximately $ billion, which reflects our estimated exposure $ billion less payments made date approximately $ million, mostly for administrative expenses and legal fees. Other antitrust litigation and claims. November , Novell, Inc. filed complaint . District Court Utah, now consolidated with other cases Maryland, asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against related Novell\x92 ownership WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June and March . June , the trial court granted our motion dismiss four six claims the complaint. appeal that ruling now pending and the case effectively stayed during the appeal. Patent and intellectual property claims. are vigorously defending more than patent infringement cases. the case Eolas Technologies, Inc. and University California . Microsoft , filed . District Court Illinois , the plaintiffs alleged infringement the browser functionality Windows. January , the trial court entered final judgment $ million, and entered injunction against distribution any new infringing products, but stayed execution the judgment and the injunction pending our appeal. appealed and March the PAGE Part Item . Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the decision and vacated the judgment, based certain evidentiary rulings the trial court. The appellate court also reversed the trial court\x92 decision that the inventors had not engaged inequitable conduct. Trial has been postponed indefinitely while the parties seek settle the matter. settlement not expected have material effect our financial position, results operations, cash flows. Microsoft and Alcatel-Lucent Matters. Microsoft and Alcatel-Lucent are parties number legal proceedings relating certain patents each the companies. Some these actions began before the merger Alcatel and Lucent . For simplicity, refer the post-merger entity Alcatel-Lucent throughout the following discussion. \x95 , filed action . District Court California seeking declaratory judgment that not infringe certain Alcatel-Lucent patents. Alcatel-Lucent has asserted claims under these patents against computer manufacturers that sell computers with our operating system and application software pre-installed. February , the jury returned verdict Alcatel-Lucent\x92 favor the first series patent trials, and awarded $ billion damages. The trial court has dismissed Alcatel-Lucent\x92 claims with respect second group patents and two patents third grouping. Trial newly-consolidated group all remaining patents scheduled begin February . \x95 March , Alcatel-Lucent filed lawsuit against . District Court California, claiming the Xbox violates one its patents. response, asserted counterclaims that Alcatel-Lucent infringes Microsoft patents its sales various products. That case has been set for trial April . \x95 November , Alcatel-Lucent filed two patent infringement cases against . District Court Texas, asserting IPTV and various networking functionalities violate seven its patents. April , asserted infringement counterclaims based four our patents relating functionality similar that accused Alcatel-Lucent. The trial all the patents set for January . \x95 February , filed complaint against Alcatel-Lucent with the International Trade Commission claiming Alcatel-Lucent infringing four Microsoft patents related our unified communications technology and seeking prevent the import certain Alcatel-Lucent unified communications products into the . This matter has been set for trial October . \x95 April , the Multimedia Patent Trust filed complaint against Microsoft, Dell, and Gateway San Diego, California accusing the parties infringing three video-related patents that originally belonged Alcatel-Lucent. Alcatel-Lucent created the Multimedia Patent Trust prior the companies\x92 merger and transferred the patents issue the trust. Motions challenging the validity the trust and Alcatel-Lucent\x92 transfer these patents will heard September . The actual costs resolve these cases will depend upon many factors such the outcome post-trial motions, any appeals, and the results the remaining trials. Technologies, Inc. . Microsoft, filed . District Court Texas September , the plaintiff alleged that Microsoft Windows and Office product activation functionality violates its patent rights. April , the jury rendered $ million verdict against . August , the trial court increased damages $ million pursuant the jury\x92 finding willful infringement and awarded $ million attorneys\x92 fees. have appealed the verdict. Veritas Operating Corporation . Microsoft , filed . District Court Washington May , subsidiary Symantec filed action asserting trade secret misappropriation, breach contract, and patent infringement relating certain storage technologies. Adverse outcomes some all the matters described this section may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against that would adversely affect distribution our operating system application products. may enter into material settlements because these risks. Other. are also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against , individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position, our results operations, our cash flows, these matters are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. PAGE Part Item June , , had accrued aggregate liabilities approximately $ million other current liabilities and approximately $ million other long-term liabilities for all the contingent matters described this note. While intend vigorously defend these matters, there exists the possibility adverse outcomes that estimate could $ billion aggregate beyond recorded amounts. Were unfavorable final outcome occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect becomes reasonably estimable NOTE SEGMENT INFORMATION Segment revenue and operating income/(loss) was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Revenue: Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Business , , , Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division , , , Unallocated and other ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Year Ended June Operating Income/(Loss): Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Business ( ) Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Reconciling amounts ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. This standard requires segmentation based our internal organization and reporting revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. Our financial reporting systems present various data for management operate the business, including internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. July announced change our operating segments from seven five reflecting previously announced reorganizations. Amounts for fiscal years and have been recast conform the current management view. The segments are designed allocate resources internally and provide framework determine management responsibility. Operating segments are defined components enterprise about which separate financial information available that evaluated regularly the chief operating decision maker, decision making group, deciding how allocate resources and assessing performance. Our chief operating decision maker our Chief Executive Officer. Our five segments are Client; Server and Tools; Online Services Business; Microsoft Business Division; and Entertainment and Devices Division. PAGE Part Item The types products and services provided each segment are summarized below: Client \x96 Windows Vista, including Home, Home Premium, Ultimate, Business, and Enterprise Starter Edition; Windows Professional and Home; Media Center Edition; Tablet Edition; and other standard Windows operating systems. Server and Tools \x96 Windows Server operating system; Microsoft SQL Server; Microsoft Enterprise Services; product support services; Visual Studio; System Center products; Forefront Security products; Biz Talk Server; MSDN; and TechNet, among others. Online Services Business \x96 MSN Search; MapPoint; MSN Internet Access; MSN Premium Web Services (consisting MSN Internet Software Subscription, MSN Hotmail Plus, MSN Bill Pay, and MSN Radio Plus); Windows Live; and MSN Mobile Services. Microsoft Business Division \x96 Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Microsoft Visio; Microsoft Office SharePoint Server; Microsoft Exchange Server; Microsoft Exchange Hosted Services; Microsoft Office Live Meeting; Microsoft Office Communication Server; Microsoft Office Communicator; Microsoft Tellme Service; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics CRM; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics NAV; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics Retail Management System; Microsoft Partner Program; and Microsoft Office Accounting. Entertainment and Devices Division \x96 Xbox console and games; Xbox Live; Zune; Mediaroom; numerous consumer software and hardware products; Windows Mobile software platform; Windows Embedded device operating system; and Windows Automotive. Because our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments, and therefore these segments are not designed measure operating income loss directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and incent shared efforts. Management will continually evaluate the alignment product development organizations, sales organizations, and inter-segment commissions for segment reporting purposes, which may result changes segment allocations future periods. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Reconciling amounts include adjustments conform with . GAAP and corporate-level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, period-end cut-off timing, and accelerated amortization for depreciation, stock awards, and performance-based stock awards. addition, certain revenue and expenses are excluded from segments included corporate-level activity including certain legal settlements and accruals for legal contingencies. PAGE Part Item Significant reconciling items were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Summary reconciling amounts: Corporate-level activity ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense ( ) ( , ) Revenue reconciling amounts ( ) Other ( ) Total $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Corporate-level activity excludes stock-based compensation expense and revenue reconciling amounts presented separately those line items. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year revenue. Sales Dell and its subsidiaries accounted for approximately % and % fiscal year and revenue, respectively. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels and cover broad array products including Windows operating systems, Microsoft Office, and server products. Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which our customers are located, were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes shipments customers the United States and licensing certain OEMs and multinational organizations. fiscal year , the Company refined its revenue allocation methodology and has revised prior year amounts accordingly. Long-lived assets, classified the geographic location the controlling statutory company which that company operates, were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States $ , $ , Other countries Total $ , $ , PAGE Part Item QUARTERLY INFORMATION ( millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Total Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , ( ) $ , ( ) $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Reflects $ billion revenue deferred the third quarter fiscal year for the Express Upgrade Windows Vista and Microsoft Office Technology guarantee programs and pre-shipments Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system. ( ) Includes $ billion revenue discussed above and charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related various legal matters. ( ) Includes $ billion charge related the Xbox warranty policy, inventory write-downs, and product returns. ( ) Includes charge $ million (pre-tax) related the settlement with RealNetworks, Inc. ( ) Includes charges $ million (pre-tax) related various legal matters. ( ) Includes charge \x80 million ($ million) result the fine imposed the European Commission July . ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related the settlement certain litigation with Novell, Inc. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related the Gateway, Inc. and Burst com settlements, Sun Microsystems, Inc., and additional charges related anti-trust and certain other matters. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related IBM and other matters. PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated August , , expressed unqualified opinion management' assessment the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting and unqualified opinion the effectiveness the Company' internal control over financial reporting. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington August , PAGE Part Item , ", 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': "CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures required Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. REPORT MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control over financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability our financial reporting for external purposes accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary for preparation our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures company assets are made accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use disposition company assets that could have material effect our financial statements would prevented detected timely basis. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting not intended provide absolute assurance that misstatement our financial statements would prevented detected. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Based this evaluation, management concluded that the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was effective June , . There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited this assessment our internal control over financial reporting; their report included Item . PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited management\x92 assessment, included the accompanying Report Management Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. The Company\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility express opinion management\x92 assessment and opinion the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management\x92 assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinions. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed , under the supervision , the company' principal executive and principal financial officers, persons performing similar functions, and effected the company' board directors, management, and other personnel provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company' internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company' assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because the inherent limitations internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility collusion improper management override controls, material misstatements due error fraud may not prevented detected timely basis. Also, projections any evaluation the effectiveness the internal control over financial reporting future periods are subject the risk that the controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, management\x92 assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting June , , fairly stated, all material respects, based the criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Also our opinion, the Company maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and for the year ended June , the Company and our report dated August , expressed unqualified opinion those financial statements. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington August , PAGE Part , III Item , , , , , ", 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE list our executive officers and biographical information appears Part , Item this report. Information about our directors may found under the caption \x93Nominees\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Information about our Audit Committee may found under the caption \x93Board Committees\x94 the Proxy Statement. That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website www microsoft com msft. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature such amendment waiver that website report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Director Compensation,\x94 \x93Named Executive Officer Compensation,\x94 \x93Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,\x94 and \x93Compensation Committee Report\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 and \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information set forth the Proxy Statement under the captions \x93Director Independence\x94 and \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the headings \x93Fees Billed Deloitte & Touche LLP\x94 and \x93Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services Independent Auditor\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PAGE Part Item PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Annual Report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Exhibit Listing Filed herewith Incorporated reference Exhibit number Exhibit description Form Period ending Exhibit Filing date Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation - Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Call Option Transaction Confirmation dated December , between Microsoft Corporation and JPMorgan Chase Bank - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors - * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the January , June , performance period - PAGE Part Item Filed herewith Incorporated reference Exhibit number Exhibit description Form Period ending Exhibit Filing date * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the July , June , performance period - * Form Stock Option Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) - Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the fiscal year performance period Subsidiaries Registrant Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement PAGE ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}