{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Our mission enable people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. Since the company was founded , have worked achieve this mission creating technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate. develop and market software, services, hardware, and solutions that believe deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value people\x92 lives. business throughout the world and have offices more than countries. generate revenue developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products and services for many different types computing devices. Our software products and services include operating systems for servers, personal computers, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; high-performance computing applications; software development tools; and video games. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify computer system integrators and developers. also design and sell hardware including the Xbox video game console, the Zune digital music and entertainment device, and peripherals. Online offerings and information are delivered through Live Search, Windows Live, Office Live, our MSN portals and channels, and the Microsoft Online Services platform which includes offerings for businesses such Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Exchange Hosted Services, Exchange Online, and SharePoint Online. enable the delivery online advertising across our broad range digital media properties and Live Search through our proprietary adCenter® platform. also research and develop advanced technologies for future software products and services. believe that delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our integrated software platform the key meeting our customers\x92 needs and our future growth. believe that will continue lay the foundation for long-term growth delivering new products and services, creating new opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction, and improving our internal processes. Our focus build this foundation through ongoing innovation our integrated software platforms; delivering compelling value propositions customers; responding effectively customer and partner needs; and continuing emphasize the importance product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability. OPERATING SEGMENTS have five operating segments: Client, Server and Tools, Online Services Business, Microsoft Business Division, and Entertainment and Devices Division. Our segments provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide framework for timely and rational allocation development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. The segments also help focus strategic planning efforts key objectives and initiatives across our businesses. PAGE Part Item Due our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments. Therefore, these segments are not designed measure operating income loss that directly related the products and services included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and motivate shared effort. Segments should not viewed discrete easily separable businesses. Client Client has overall responsibility for technical architecture, engineering, and product delivery our Windows product family and responsible for our relationships with personal computer manufacturers, including multinational and regional original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94). The segment includes sales and marketing expenses for the Windows operating system and product development efforts for the Windows platform. Client revenue growth correlated with the growth purchases personal computers from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. released Windows Vista, the most recent version the Windows operating system, fiscal year . This release concluded major development phase that believe resulted significantly more manageable and powerful operating system compared with prior releases. Windows Vista includes advances security, digital media, user interfaces, and other areas that enhance the user and developer experience. Client offerings consist premium and standard edition Windows operating systems. Premium editions are those that include additional functionality and are sold price above our standard editions. Products: Windows Vista, including Home, Home Premium, Ultimate, Business, Enterprise and Starter Edition; Windows Professional and Home; Media Center Edition; Tablet Edition; and other standard Windows operating systems. Competition Client faces strong competition from well-established companies with differing approaches the market. Competing commercial software products, including variants Unix, are supplied competitors such Apple, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Sun Microsystems. The Linux operating system, which also derived from Unix and available without payment under General Public License, has gained some acceptance competitive pressures lead OEMs reduce costs and new, lower price form factors gain adoption. Apple takes integrated approach the experience and has made inroads share, particularly the . and the consumer segment. The Windows operating system also faces competition from alternative platforms and new devices that may reduce consumer demand for traditional personal computers. Competitors such Mozilla offer software that competes with the Internet Explorer Web browsing capabilities Windows products. User and usage volumes mobile devices are increasing around the world relative the . Our operating system products compete effectively delivering innovative software, giving customers choice and flexibility, familiar, easy- -use interface, compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, and the largest support network for any operating system. Server and Tools Server and Tools develops and markets software server products, services, and solutions. Windows Server-based products are integrated server infrastructure and middleware software designed support software applications and tools built the Windows Server operating system. Windows Server-based products include the server platform including targeted segment solutions, database, storage, management and operations, service-oriented architecture platform, and security and identity software. The segment also builds standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server products can run -site, hosting environment, Web-based environment. offer broad range consulting services and provide product support services and industry solutions. also provide training and certification developers and information technology professionals about our Server and Tools and Client platform products. PAGE Part Item Approximately % Server and Tools revenue comes from multi-year licensing agreements, approximately % purchased through fully packaged product and transactional volume licensing programs, and approximately % comes from licenses sold OEMs. The remainder Server and Tools revenue comes from consulting and product support services. Major releases from Server and Tools fiscal year included Windows Server and Visual Studio . Windows Server provides virtualization technologies, security enhancements, new Internet tools and infrastructure, and management utilities while Visual Studio provides rapid application development, team collaboration tools, and advances building connected applications. fiscal year , plan release Microsoft SQL Server which will deliver advances database scalability, performance, security, and policy-based management. Products and Services: Windows Server operating system; Microsoft SQL Server; Microsoft Enterprise Services; product support services; Visual Studio; System Center products; Forefront security products; Biz Talk Server; MSDN; and other products and services. Competition Our server operating system products face intense competition from wide variety server operating systems and server applications, offered companies with variety market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Sun Microsystems offer their own versions the Unix operating system preinstalled server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute Linux operating system development. The competitive position Linux has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many leading commercial software developers and non-commercial software developers. number companies supply versions Linux, including Novell and Red Hat. Server virtualization platform providers, such VMware, are another form competition for the Windows server operating system. have entered into business and technical collaboration agreements with Novell and other Linux providers build, market, and support series solutions enhance the interoperability our products with their virtualization, management, and network security solutions, and provide each other\x92 customers with patent coverage for their respective products. compete provide enterprise-wide computing solutions with several companies that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms. IBM and Sun Microsystems lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition (J2EE). Commercial software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include , Inc., IBM, and Oracle. Our Web application platform software competes with open source software such Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP, and compete against Java middleware such JBoss, Geronimo, and Spring Framework. Numerous commercial software vendors offer competing commercial software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, and -business servers. System Center competes with Hewlett-Packard, BMC, , Inc., and IBM the management information technology infrastructures, while our Forefront line business security products compete with McAfee, Symantec, and Trend Micro protecting both client and server applications. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, BEA Systems, Borland, IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, and other companies. These offerings include open source projects like Eclipse (sponsored IBM and Oracle). believe that our server products provide customers with advantages innovation, performance, total costs ownership, and productivity delivering superior applications, development tools, and compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Online Services Business The Online Services Business (\x93OSB\x94) consists -line advertising platform with offerings for both publishers and advertisers, personal communications services such email and instant messaging, online information offerings such Live Search, and the MSN portals and channels around the world. earn revenue primarily from online advertising, including search, display, and email and messaging services. Revenue also generated through subscriptions and transactions generated from online paid services, from advertiser and publisher tools, digital marketing and advertising agency services, and from MSN narrowband Internet access subscribers. continue launch new online offerings and expect the future. During fiscal year , launched new releases PAGE Part Item Windows Live Search, the Windows Live suite applications and services, and updated our MSN Video Service. addition, launched new release adCenter, our proprietary advertising platform, and also expanded our advertising platform portfolio through acquisitions. acquired number companies during the fiscal year, the most significant which was aQuantive, Inc., digital marketing business that expect will play key role the future development our Online Services Business. believe the acquisition will help build and support next-generation advertiser and publisher solutions for cross media planning, video- -demand, and Internet protocol television. Products: Live Search; MSN; MapPoint; MSN Internet Access; MSN Premium Web Services (consisting MSN Internet Software Subscription, MSN Hotmail Plus, and MSN Software Services); Windows Live; MSN Mobile Services; AvenueA Razorfish media agency services; Atlas online tools for advertisers; and the Drive network for publishers. Competition OSB competes with AOL, Google, Yahoo!, and wide array Web sites and portals that provide content and online offerings all types end users. compete with these organizations provide advertising opportunities for merchants. OSB also competes for narrowband Internet access users with AOL, Earthlink, and other ISPs for dial- Internet access the United States. The Internet advertising industry has grown significantly over the past several years, and anticipate that this trend will continue. Competitors are aggressively developing Internet offerings that seek provide more effective ways connecting advertisers with audiences through enhanced functionality communication services, improvements information services such Internet search, and improved advertising infrastructure and support services. have developed our own algorithmic search engine provide end users with more relevant search results, expanded search services, and broader selection content. support the growth our advertising business, also are investing our communication services, technology, operations, and sales efforts. will continue introduce new products and services, including Windows Live services that are aimed attracting additional users through improvements the user online experience. consumers migrate from narrowband broadband Internet access, expect our narrowband Internet access subscriber base continue decline and this portion our business decrease importance. believe that can compete effectively across the breadth our Internet services providing users with software innovation the form information and communication services that help them find and use the information and experiences they want online and providing merchants with effective advertising results through improved systems and sales support. Microsoft Business Division Microsoft Business Division (\x93MBD\x94) offerings consist the Microsoft Office system and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity through range programs, services, and software solutions. Growth revenue from the Microsoft Office system offerings, which generate over % MBD revenue, depends our ability add value the core Office product set and continue expand our product offerings other information worker areas such content management, enterprise search, collaboration, unified communications and business intelligence. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. evaluate MBD results based upon the nature the end user two primary parts\x97business revenue which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue, and consumer revenue which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. Approximately % MBD revenue generated from sales businesses. Revenue from this category generally depends upon the number information workers licensed enterprise and therefore relatively independent the number PCs sold given year. Approximately % MBD revenue derived from sales consumers. Most this revenue generated from new licenses acquired through fully packaged products and licenses sold through OEMs for new PCs and generally affected the level shipments and product launches. Products: Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Microsoft Visio; Microsoft Office SharePoint Server; Microsoft PerformancePoint; Microsoft Office Live; FAST ESP; Microsoft Exchange Server; Microsoft Exchange Hosted Services; Microsoft Office Live Meeting; Microsoft Office Communication Server; Microsoft Office Communicator; PAGE Part Item Microsoft Tellme Service, Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics CRM; Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics NAV; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics Retail Management System; Microsoft Partner Program; and Microsoft Office Accounting. Competition Competitors the Microsoft Office system include many software application vendors such Apple, Corel, Google, IBM, Novell, Oracle, Red Hat, Sun Microsystems, and local application developers Europe and Asia. IBM (Smartsuite) and Corel (WordPerfect Suite) have measurable installed bases with their office productivity products. Apple may distribute certain its application software products with various models its PCs. The OpenOffice org project provides freely downloadable cross-platform application that also has been adapted various commercial software vendors sell under their brands, including IBM, Novell, Red Hat, and Sun. Corel\x92 suite and many local software suites around the world are aggressively priced for OEMs preinstall low-priced PCs. Google has launched Google Apps, hosted messaging and productivity suite, and also provides enterprise search offering that competes with Microsoft Office SharePoint Server for Search, our new enterprise search product. Web-based offerings such AjaxWrite, gOffice, iNetOffice, SimDesk, ThinkFree, wikiCalc, other small projects competing with individual applications, can also provide alternative Microsoft Office system products. IBM has many different points competition with Office system products with its Notes and Workplace offerings. continue respond market demand for additional functionality and products, will compete with additional vendors, most notably enterprise content management and search, collaboration tools, unified communications, and business intelligence. These competitors include Autonomy, Cisco, Endeca, Google, IBM, Oracle, and SAP. Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with well-known vendors such Intuit and Sage the market focused providing solutions for small and mid-sized businesses. The market for large organizations and divisions global enterprises intensely competitive with small number primary vendors including Oracle and SAP. These vendors are positioning many their business applications focus more intensely small and mid-sized businesses. Additionally Salesforce com\x92 -demand customer relationship management offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online and Microsoft Dynamic CRM\x92 -premise offerings. believe our products compete effectively with these vendors based our strategy providing interoperable, adaptable solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have. Entertainment and Devices Division The Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) responsible for developing, producing, and marketing the Xbox video game system, including consoles and accessories, third-party games, games published under the Microsoft brand, and Xbox Live operations, well research, sales, and support those products. addition Xbox, offer the Zune digital music and entertainment device; software games; online games; Mediaroom, our Internet protocol television software; mobile and embedded device platforms, Surface computing platform; and other devices. EDD also leads the development efforts our line consumer software and hardware products including application software for Macintosh computers and Microsoft hardware products, and responsible for all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office and the Windows operating systems. Products: Xbox console and games; Xbox Live; Zune; Mediaroom; numerous consumer software and hardware products (such mice and keyboards); Windows Mobile software and services platform; Windows Embedded device operating system; Windows Automotive; and Surface computing platform. Competition Entertainment and devices businesses are highly competitive, characterized rapid product life cycles, frequent introductions new products and titles, and the development new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized significant price competition. anticipate continued pricing pressure from our competitors. From time time, have responded this pressure reducing prices certain products. Our competitors vary size from very small companies with limited resources very large, diversified corporations with substantial financial and marketing resources. compete primarily the basis product innovation, quality and variety, timing product releases, and effectiveness distribution and marketing. PAGE Part Item Our Xbox hardware business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large, established base customers. The lifecycle for video game consoles averages five seven years. released Xbox , our second generation console, November . Nintendo and Sony released new versions their game consoles late . believe the success video game consoles determined the availability games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability the console, and the ability create new revenue sources such advertising and downloadable content. think the Xbox positioned well against competitive console products based significant innovation hardware architecture, new developer tools, expanded revenue sources, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises such Halo. addition competing against software published for non-Xbox platforms, our games business also competes with numerous companies that have licensed develop and publish software for the Xbox consoles. Zune competes with the Apple iPod and other digital music and entertainment devices. Our hardware products face aggressive competition from computer and other hardware manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners. Mediaroom faces competition primarily from variety competitors that provide elements Internet protocol television delivery platform, but that not provide end- -end solutions for the network operator. Windows Mobile software and services faces substantial competition from Apple, Nokia, Openwave Systems, Palm, QUALCOMM, Research Motion, and Symbian. The embedded operating system business highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include IBM, Wind River, and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. OPERATIONS serve the needs customers around the world and improve the quality and usability products international markets, \x93localize\x94 many our products reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Our operational centers support all operations their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center Singapore supports the Japan, Greater China and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers Fargo, North Dakota, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. contract most our manufacturing activities for Xbox and related games, Zune, various retail software packaged products, and Microsoft hardware third parties. Our products may include some components that are available from only one limited sources. Our Xbox console includes certain key components that are supplied single source. The central processing unit purchased from IBM and the graphics chips and embedded dynamic random access memory chips for the graphics processing unit are purchased from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and NEC Corporation, respectively. Although have chosen initially source these key Xbox components from single supplier, are under obligation exclusively source components from these vendors the future. Beyond the exceptions noted, generally have the ability use other custom manufacturers the current vendor becomes unavailable. generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. These amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years. plan continue make significant investments broad range research and product development efforts. While most our software products are developed internally, also purchase technology, license intellectual property rights, and oversee third-party development and localization certain products. believe are not materially dependent upon licenses and other agreements with third parties relating the development our products. Internal development allows maintain closer technical control over our products. also gives the freedom decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. Generally, also create product documentation internally. strive obtain information early PAGE Part Item possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, provide application vendors with range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Investing Business and Product Development. Innovation key factor Microsoft\x92 growth. Our model for growth based broad adoption the products and services develop and market, our willingness enter new markets, and our ability embrace and act disruptive technology trends. continue our long-term commitment research and develop, wide spectrum technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and collaboration; information access and organization; entertainment; business and -commerce; and devices. Increasingly, are taking global approach innovation. While our main research and development facilities are located Redmond, Washington, also operate research facilities other parts the United States and around the world, including Canada, China, Denmark, England, India, Ireland, and Israel. This global approach will help remain competitive local markets and enables continue attract top talent from across the globe. Based our broad focus innovation and long-term approach new markets, see the following key opportunities for growth: Consumer technology. build our strength the consumer marketplace with Windows Vista, the Microsoft Office System, Xbox , Microsoft Windows Live, Windows Mobile, and Zune, are focused delivering products that believe are compelling and cutting edge terms design, features, and functionality. succeed consumer technologies, also are working define the next era consumer electronics. the past, consumer electronics was hardware-centric business; today, the innovation consumer electronics devices lies the software that powers them. This creating new opportunities for deliver end- -end experiences that connect users information, communications, entertainment, and people new and compelling ways. Software plus services. Underlying our opportunities all our businesses company-wide commitment embrace software plus services. The ability combine the power desktop and server software with the reach the Internet represents opportunity across every one our businesses. continue build out our services platform, will bring broad range new products and service offerings market that target the needs large enterprises, small and medium-sized businesses, and consumers. Expanding our presence the desktop, the server, and with developers. believe are well-positioned build our strength with businesses all sizes and with developers. Fiscal year saw widespread adoption Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system and the launch Windows Server , SQL Server , and Visual Studio . will continue focus expanding adoption these products fiscal year , and providing additional value security, messaging, systems management, and collaboration. also continue focus developers with the release new tools such Silverlight. will continue pursue new opportunities high-performance computing, unified communications, healthcare, and business intelligence. Emerging markets are also important opportunity for . DISTRIBUTION, SALES AND MARKETING distribute our products primarily through the following channels: OEM; distributors and resellers; and online. OEM. Our operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant OEMs the right build computing devices based our operating systems, principally PCs. Under similar arrangements, also market and license certain server operating systems, desktop applications, hardware devices, and consumer software products OEMs. have OEM agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the major OEMs, including Acer, Dell, Fujitsu, Fujitsu Siemens Computers, Gateway, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, NEC, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba. substantial amount OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume, customized vendors operating local markets. Distributors and Resellers. license software organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer acquire multiple licenses products. Organizations license our products primarily through large account resellers (\x93LARs\x94), direct market resellers, and value-added resellers (\x93VARs\x94). Many organizations that license products through enterprise agreements transact directly with , with sales support from our Enterprise Software Advisor channel partners. These Enterprise Software Advisors typically are also authorized LARs and operate resellers for our other licensing programs. Although each type reselling partner reaches organizations all sizes, PAGE Part Item LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations and VARs typically reach the small- and medium-sized organizations. Some our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some our largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Insight Enterprises, Software House International, and Software Spectrum. Our Microsoft Dynamics software offerings are licensed enterprises through global network channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. distribute our finished goods products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain our products primarily through retail outlets, including Best Buy, Target, and Wal-Mart. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers and provides product training and sales support. Our arrangements for organizations acquire multiple licenses products are designed provide them with means doing without having acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. delivering organizational licensing arrangements the market, use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they include: Open licensing. Designed primarily for small- -medium organizations ( over licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, rights future versions software products over specified time period (generally two years). The offering that conveys rights future versions certain software product over the contract period called Software Assurance. Software Assurance also provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Under the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, licenses with Software Assurance. They can also renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Select licensing. Designed primarily for medium- -large organizations (greater than licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, Software Assurance, which consists rights future versions certain software products, support, tools, and training over specified time period (generally three years). Similar the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with Software Assurance, renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Enterprise Agreement licensing. The Enterprise Agreement targeted medium and large organizations that want acquire perpetual licenses software products for all substantial parts their enterprise, along with rights future versions certain software products, support, tools, and training over specified time period (generally three years). Online. distribute online content and services through Live Search, Windows Live, Office Live, our MSN portals and channels, the Microsoft Online Services platform, which includes offerings for business, and other online channels. OSB delivers Internet access and various premium services and tools consumers. OSB also delivers online email and messaging communication services and information services such online search, advertising, and premium content. EDD operates the Xbox Live service which allows customers participate the gaming experience online with other subscribers. operate and deliver the Microsoft Small Business Center portal. This portal provides tools and expertise for small-business owners build, market, and manage their businesses online. Other services delivered online include Microsoft Developer Networks subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support our partners developing and selling our products and solutions. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small- and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through resellers and OEMs. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year revenue. Sales Dell and its subsidiaries accounted for approximately % fiscal year revenue. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels and cover broad array products including Windows operating systems, Microsoft Office, and server products. Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. PAGE Part Item EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers July , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Robert . (Robbie) Bach President, Entertainment and Devices Division Lisa . Brummel Senior Vice President, Human Resources Stephen . Elop President, Microsoft Business Division Kevin . Johnson President, Platforms and Services Division Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Robert . Muglia Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Craig . Mundie Chief Research and Strategy Officer Raymond . Ozzie Chief Software Architect Jeffrey . Raikes President, Microsoft Business Division Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President; General Counsel and Secretary Brian Kevin Turner Chief Operating Officer . Ballmer was appointed Chief Executive Officer January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Bach was named President, Entertainment and Devices Division September . had been Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March , Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity since , and Vice President, Desktop Applications Marketing since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Brummel was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources December . She had been Corporate Vice President, Human Resources since April . From April , she had been Corporate Vice President the Home & Retail Division. Since joining Microsoft , . Brummel has held number management positions, including general manager the Consumer Productivity business and product unit manager several product lines. . Elop was named President, Microsoft Business Division January . Prior joining the Company, . Elop served Chief Operating Officer Juniper Networks, Inc. from January January . From December December , served President Worldwide Field Operations Adobe Systems Inc. . Elop joined Adobe following the acquisition Macromedia Inc., where was President and Chief Executive Officer from January December . During his almost eight-year tenure Macromedia, . Elop held many senior positions, including Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President Worldwide Field Operations and General Manager Macromedia\x92 eBusiness division. . Johnson was named President, Platforms and Services Division January . had been -President the Platforms and Services Division since September . held the position Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services since March . Before that position, had been Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas since February and Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August . Prior assuming that role, had been Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. joined Microsoft . July , . Johnson announced his plans resign from the Company. . Liddell was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer the Company May . . Liddell served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer International Paper Company from March through April , and prior becoming Chief Financial Officer, held the positions Vice President-Finance and Controller. . Liddell served Chief Executive Officer Carter Holt Harvey Limited, affiliate International Paper, from and Chief Financial Officer from . . Muglia was named Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business October . Before holding that position, had number leadership positions Microsoft including Senior Vice President, Enterprise Storage Division since November , Group Vice President, Personal Services Group since August , Group Vice President, Business Productivity since December , Senior Vice President, Business Productivity since March , Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools since February , and Corporate Vice President, Server Applications since . joined Microsoft . PAGE Part Item , . Mundie was named Chief Research and Strategy Officer June . had been Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy since August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . . Mundie joined Microsoft . . Ozzie was named Chief Software Architect June . had been Chief Technical Officer from April June . assumed that role April after Microsoft acquired Groove Networks, collaboration software company formed . . Raikes was named President, Microsoft Business Division September . had been Group Vice President, Information Worker Business since June . Before that position, had been Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services since August and Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . January , announced his plans retire the end August . . Smith was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary November . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer effective July . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . . Turner was named Chief Operating Officer September . Before joining Microsoft, was Executive Vice President Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and President and Chief Executive Officer the Sam\x92 Club division. From September August , served Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Wal-Mart\x92 Information Systems Division. From March September , served its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer the Information Systems Division. EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. There make available, free charge, our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file such material with furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94). Our SEC reports can accessed through the investor relations section our Web site. The information found our Web site not part this any other report file with furnish the SEC. ', 'item 1a. ': 'RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results operations, cash flows, and the trading price our common stock. Challenges our business model may reduce our revenues and operating margins. Our business model has been based upon customers paying fee license software that develop and distribute. Under this license-based software model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution their products. Certain \x93open source\x94 software business models challenge our license-based software model. Open source commonly refers software whose source code subject license allowing modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject restrictions set forth the license. number commercial firms compete with using open source business model modifying and then distributing open source software end users nominal cost and earning revenue complementary services and products. These firms not bear the full costs research and development for the software. Some these firms may build upon Microsoft ideas that provide them free low royalties connection with our interoperability initiatives. the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance, our sales, revenue and operating margins may decline. PAGE Part Item Another development the business model under which companies provide content, and software the form applications, data, and related services, over the Internet exchange for revenues primarily from advertising subscriptions. example advertising-funded business model Internet search, where providing robust alternative particularly important and challenging due the scale effects enjoyed single market dominant competitor. Advances computing and communications technologies have made this model viable and enabled the rapid growth some our competitors. are devoting significant resources toward developing our own competing software plus services strategies. uncertain whether these strategies will successful. important element our business model has been create platform-based ecosystems which many participants can build diverse solutions. competing vertically-integrated model, which single firm controls both the software and hardware elements product, has been successful with certain consumer products such personal computers, mobile phones and digital music players. also offer vertically-integrated hardware and software products; however, efforts compete with the vertically integrated model may increase our cost sales and reduce operating margins. face intense competition. continue experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors range size from Fortune companies small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. Although believe the breadth our businesses and product portfolio competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused narrower product lines may more effective devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources compete with . addition, barriers entry our businesses generally are low and products, once developed, can distributed broadly and quickly relatively low cost. Open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts developing software that mimics the features and functionality our products, some cases the basis technical specifications for Microsoft technologies that make available. response competition, are developing versions our products with basic functionality that are sold lower prices than the standard versions. These competitive pressures may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives, resulting lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. may not able adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use software and other intellectual property difficult. While piracy adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the . more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Similarly, the absence harmonized patent laws makes more difficult ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail enhance revenue. Reductions the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. Third parties may claim infringe their intellectual property rights. From time time receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow. resolve these claims may enter into royalty and licensing agreements less favorable terms, stop selling redesign affected products, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. Such agreements may cause operating margins decline. have made and expect continue making significant expenditures settle claims related the use technology and intellectual property rights part our strategy manage this risk. may not able protect our source code from copying there unauthorized disclosure source code. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, critical our business. Although license portions our application and operating system source code number licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. unauthorized disclosure significant portion our source code occurs, could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. This could make easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code also could increase the security risks described the next paragraph. PAGE Part Item Security vulnerabilities our products could lead reduced revenues liability claims. Maintaining the security computers and computer networks critical issue for and our customers. Hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. Although this industry- wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, affects our products particular because hackers tend focus their efforts the most popular operating systems and programs and expect them continue . devote significant resources address security vulnerabilities through: \x95 engineering more secure products; \x95 enhancing security and reliability features our products; \x95 helping our customers make the best use our products and services protect against computer viruses and other attacks; \x95 improving the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities; \x95 investing mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed; and \x95 providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such firewalls, anti-virus, and other security software. The cost these steps could reduce our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products could lead some customers seek return products, reduce delay future purchases, use competing products. Customers may also increase their expenditures protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption new technologies. Any these actions customers could adversely affect our revenue. addition, actual perceived vulnerabilities may lead claims against . Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure such liability, there assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. are subject government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how design and market our products. leading global software maker, receive close scrutiny from government agencies under . and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights action for competitors consumers assert claims anti-competitive conduct. For example, have been involved the following actions. Lawsuits brought the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia two separate actions were resolved through Consent Decree that took effect and Final Judgment entered . These proceedings imposed various constraints our Windows operating system businesses. These constraints include limits certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers limit the visibility certain Windows features new PCs. believe are full compliance with these rules. However, fail comply with them, additional restrictions could imposed that would adversely affect our business. The European Commission closely scrutinizes the design high-volume Microsoft products and the terms which make certain technologies used these products, such file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available other companies. , the Commission ordered create new versions Windows that not include certain multimedia technologies and provide our competitors with specifications for how implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols their own products. The Commission\x92 impact product design may limit our ability innovate Windows other products the future, diminish the developer appeal the Windows platform, and increase our product development costs. The availability licenses related protocols and file formats may enable competitors develop software products that better mimic the functionality our own products which could result decreased sales our products. Government regulatory actions and court decisions may hinder our ability provide the benefits our software consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness our products and the revenues that come from them. New actions could initiated any time, either these other governments private claimants, including with respect new versions Windows other Microsoft products. The outcome such actions, steps taken avoid them, could adversely affect variety ways, including: \x95 may have choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies avoid fines designing and developing alternative versions those products comply with government rulings, which may entail removing functionality that customers want which developers rely. PAGE Part Item \x95 may required make available licenses our proprietary technologies terms that not reflect their fair market value not protect our associated intellectual property. \x95 The rulings described above may cited precedent other competition law proceedings. Our software and services online offerings are subject government regulation the Internet domestically and internationally many areas, including user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. The application these laws and regulations our business often unclear and sometimes may conflict. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs require changes business practices that result reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result penalties being imposed orders that stop doing the alleged noncompliant activity. Our business depends our ability attract and retain talented employees. Our business based successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders our industry extremely competitive. are limited our ability recruit internationally restrictive domestic immigration laws. are less successful our recruiting efforts, are unable retain key employees, our ability develop and deliver successful products and services may adversely affected. Effective succession planning also important our long-term success. Failure ensure effective transfer knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Delays product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Our increasing focus software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. Significant delays new product service releases significant problems creating new products services could adversely affect our revenue. make significant investments new products and services that may not profitable. have made and will continue make significant investments research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including Windows Vista, the Microsoft Office system, Xbox , Live Search, Windows Server, Zune, and Windows Live. Investments new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for number years, all. Moreover, new products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not high the margins have experienced historically. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Inflation, softness corporate information technology spending, other changes economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenue our investment portfolio. demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines significantly, consumer corporate spending for such products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. addition, our revenue may unfavorably impacted customers reduce their purchases new software products upgrades because new offerings such Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system are not perceived providing significant new functionality other value prospective purchasers. have claims and lawsuits against that may result adverse outcomes. are subject variety claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes some all these claims may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability conduct our business. Although management currently believes resolving all these matters, individually the aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows, the litigation and other claims are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. material adverse impact our financial position, results operations, and cash flows also could occur for the period which the effect unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. may have additional tax liabilities. are subject income taxes the United States and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination PAGE Part Item uncertain. regularly are under audit tax authorities. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results audit litigation could have material effect our financial position, results operations, cash flows the period periods for which that determination made. Our vertically-integrated hardware and software products may experience quality supply problems . Our hardware products such the Xbox console are highly complex and can have defects design, manufacture, associated software. could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm fail detect effectively address such issues through design, testing, warranty repairs. obtain some components our hardware devices from sole suppliers. component delivery from sole-source supplier delayed becomes unavailable industry shortages occur, may unable obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting reduced sales. Either component shortages excess obsolete inventory may require record charges cost revenue. Xbox consoles are assembled Asia; disruptions the supply chain may result console shortages that would affect our revenues and operating margins. These same risks would apply any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products may offer. our goodwill amortizable intangible assets become impaired may required record significant charge earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. Goodwill tested for impairment least annually. Factors that may considered change circumstances, indicating that the carrying value our goodwill amortizable intangible assets may not recoverable, include decline stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates our industry. may required record significant charge our financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill amortizable intangible assets determined, negatively impacting our results operations. operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure make our pricing structure uniform might require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. Operations outside the United States may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor economic conditions specific country region; and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations. Although hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. Catastrophic events geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. disruption failure our systems operations the event major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales, providing services performing other mission-critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could harm our ability conduct normal business operations and our operating results. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that don\x92 realize satisfactory return our investment, that experience difficulty the integration new employees, business systems, and technology, diversion management\x92 attention from our other businesses. These events could harm our operating results financial condition. PAGE Part Item , , Improper disclosure personal data could result liability and harm our reputation. store and process large amounts personally identifiable information. possible that our security controls over personal data, our training employees and vendors data security, and other practices follow may not prevent the improper disclosure personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting increased costs loss revenue. Our software products also enable our customers store and process personal data. Perceptions that our products not adequately protect the privacy personal information could inhibit sales our products. may experience outages and disruptions our online services fail maintain adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic and complexity our products and services demand more computing power. have spent and expect continue spend substantial amounts purchase lease data centers and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure handle increased traffic our Web sites and introduce new products and services and support existing services such Xbox Live, Windows Live, and Office Live. This expansion expensive, complex, and could result inefficiencies operational failures, which could diminish the quality our products, services, and user experience, resulting damage our reputation and loss current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, harming our operating results and financial condition. Other risks that may affect our business. Other factors that may affect our performance may include sales channel disruption, such the bankruptcy major distributor, and our ability implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth. ', 'item 1b. ': 'UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS have received written comments regarding our periodic current reports from the staff the SEC that were issued days more preceding the end our fiscal year that remain unresolved. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office space located King County, Washington: nine million square feet owned space situated approximately acres land own our corporate campus Redmond, Washington and approximately four million square feet space lease. own approximately two million square feet office space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately four million square feet office space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately two million square feet that owned and approximately eight million square feet that leased. Facilities that own include our European Operations Center Dublin, Ireland; the India Development Center Hyderabad, India; and facility Reading, . The largest leased office spaces include the following locations: Beijing and Shanghai, China; Bangalore, India; Dublin, Ireland; Tokyo, Japan; Mississauga, Canada; Taipei, Taiwan; Seoul, Korea; Sydney, Australia; and Milan, Italy. addition the above locations, have disk duplication and digital distribution facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters, and various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described the \x93Product Development\x94 section above. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional spaces are available accommodate expansion needs. have development agreement with the City Redmond under which may currently develop approximately , square feet additional facilities our corporate campus Redmond, Washington. addition, own acres undeveloped land Issaquah, Washington, that can accommodate approximately one million square feet office space. PAGE Part Item , ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS March , the European Commission issued competition law decision that, among other things, ordered license certain Windows server protocol technology our competitors. March , the European Commission issued statement objections claiming that the pricing terms proposed for licensing the technology required the March decision were \x93not reasonable.\x94 Following additional steps took address these concerns, the Commission announced October , that were compliance with the March decision and that further penalty should imposed from that date. February , the Commission issued fine $ billion ( \x80 million) related the period prior October , . May , filed application with the European Court First Instance annul the fine. See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) for information about legal proceedings which are involved. ', 'item 4. ': 'SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal year . PAGE Part Item PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. July , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock sales prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) for information regarding dividends approved our Board Directors fiscal years and . July , , announced that our Board Directors authorized two new share repurchase programs: $ billion tender offer which was completed August , ; and authorization for additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program that expires June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares common stock, % our common shares outstanding, for approximately $ billion price per share $ . August , , announced that the authorization for the $ billion ongoing share repurchase program had been increased approximately $ billion. result, were authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. The transactions occurred open market purchases and pursuant trading plan under Rule 10b5- . repurchased common stock each quarter fiscal year using available cash resources follows: Period Total number shares purchased Average price paid per share July , \x96 September , , , $ October , \x96 December , , , $ January , \x96 March , , , $ April , \x96 June , , , $ Total share repurchases fiscal year , , Common stock repurchases the fourth quarter fiscal year were follows: Period ( ) Total number shares purchased ( ) Average price paid per share ( ) Total number shares purchased part publicly announced plans programs ( ) Approximate dollar value shares that may yet purchased under the plans programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , \x96 $ \x96 \x96 $ , May , \x96 May , , , $ , , $ , June , \x96 June , , , $ , , $ , , , , , PAGE Part Item ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Fiscal Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS , , AND OVERVIEW The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis (\x93 & \x94) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes the financial statements (\x93Notes\x94). generate revenue developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products and services for many different types computing devices. Our software products and services include operating systems for servers, personal computers, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; high-performance computing applications; software development tools; and video games. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify computer system integrators and developers. also design and sell hardware including the Xbox video game console, the Zune digital music and entertainment device, and peripherals. Online offerings and information are delivered through Live Search, Windows Live, Office Live, our MSN portals and channels, and the Microsoft Online Services platform which includes offerings for businesses such Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Exchange Hosted Services, Exchange Online, and SharePoint Online. enable the delivery online advertising across our broad range digital media properties and Live Search through our proprietary adCenter® platform. Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest the second quarter our fiscal year due corporate calendar year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers. Our Entertainment and Devices Division particularly seasonal its products are aimed the consumer market and are highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Typically, the Entertainment and Devices Division has generated over % its yearly segment revenues our second fiscal quarter. fiscal year , our revenue was highest the third quarter due the recognition $ billion revenue previously deferred from the Express Upgrade Windows Vista and Microsoft Office Technology Guarantee programs and pre-shipments Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system. The technology guarantee programs provided customers who purchased current products with free discounted rights Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system when those products became available consumers. intend sustain the long-term growth our businesses through technological innovation, engineering excellence, and commitment delivering high-quality products and services customers and partners. Recognizing that one our primary challenges help accelerate worldwide adoption and software upgrades, continue advance the functionality, security, and value Windows operating systems and develop operating system versions targeted emerging markets. also are increasing our focus selling our products emerging markets and reducing the amount unlicensed software used those markets. addition, continue develop innovative software applications and solutions that believe will enhance the productivity information workers, improve communication and collaboration work groups, aid business intelligence, and streamline processes for small and mid-sized businesses. sustain the growth our Server and Tools business amid competition from other vendors proprietary and open source software, our goal deliver products that provide the best platform for network computing \x96 software that easiest deploy and manage, and that most secure \x96 with the lowest total cost ownership. continue invest research and development existing and new lines business, including online solutions, business solutions, mobile computing, communication, entertainment, and other areas that believe may contribute our long-term growth. also invest research and development advanced technologies for future software products. believe that delivering innovative and high-value solutions through our integrated platform the key meeting customer needs and our future growth. believe that over the last few years have laid foundation for long-term growth delivering innovative products, creating opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction with key audiences, and improving our internal business processes. Our focus fiscal year continue build this foundation and continue execute well key areas, including continuing innovate our integrated software platform, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and continuing focus internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability across the company. PAGE Part Item Key market opportunities include: Consumer technology. are focused delivering consumer software products that believe are compelling terms design, features, and functionality. also are working define the next era consumer electronics through the development innovative software that runs wide range devices and connects people quickly and easily the information, experiences, and communities they care about. Software plus services. The ability combine the power desktop and server software with the reach the Internet represents opportunity across every one our businesses. believe our software plus services approach will enable deliver new experiences end users and new value businesses. Expanding our presence the desktop, the server, and with developers. Through our ability deliver additional value security, messaging, systems management, and collaboration, and new technology for high-performance computing, unified communications, and business intelligence, believe are well-positioned build our strength with businesses all sizes and with developers. Fiscal year saw widespread adoption Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system and the launch Windows Server , SQL Server , and Visual Studio . Summary Results for Fiscal Years , , and ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ % % Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue growth was driven primarily increased licensing the Microsoft Office system, increased Xbox platform sales, increased revenue associated with Windows Server and SQL Server, and increased licensing Windows Vista. Foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $ billion three percentage point increase revenue during the year. Operating income increased primarily reflecting increased revenue, partially offset increased headcount-related expenses, increased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies, and increased cost revenue. Headcount-related expenses increased %, reflecting increase headcount during the year. incurred $ billion legal charges during the year primarily related the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million) compared with $ million legal charges during the prior year. Cost revenue increased $ million %, reflecting increased data center and equipment costs, online content expenses, and increased costs associated with the growth our consulting services, partially offset decreased Xbox costs. The decreased Xbox costs reflect the $ billion charge fiscal year related the expansion our Xbox warranty coverage discussed below, partially offset increased Xbox product costs reflecting growth unit console sales. The diluted earnings per share growth was impacted the $ billion Xbox charge fiscal year and current year share repurchases. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue growth was driven primarily licensing the Microsoft Office system and Windows Vista, increased revenue associated with SQL Server, Windows Server, and Visual Studio, and increased Xbox platform sales. Foreign currency exchange rates did not have significant impact consolidated revenue during the year. Operating income growth was driven primarily increased revenue and decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies, partially offset increased cost revenue associated with Xbox and Windows Vista, increased OSB data centers costs, and increased sales and marketing expenses. July , expanded our global Xbox warranty coverage three years from the date purchase for general hardware failure indicated three flashing red lights. result, recorded $ billion charge fiscal year for anticipated costs under the warranty policy, inventory write-downs, and product returns. The increase sales and marketing expenses PAGE Part Item was primarily driven increased headcount-related expenses and marketing costs related product launches. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount during the year. Fiscal Year Outlook Global macroeconomic factors have strong correlation demand for our software, services, hardware, and online offerings. fiscal year , expect broad continuation the economic conditions and demand experienced during the latter part fiscal year . fiscal year , expect double digit revenue growth and estimate shipments will grow between % and %. Within the overall market, expect current trends continue with consumer segment growth exceeding that the business segment and emerging market growth exceeding that mature markets. SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) The revenue and operating income (loss) amounts this section are presented basis consistent with . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\x93GAAP\x94) and include certain reconciling items attributable each the segments. The segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) presented basis consistent with the Company\x92 internal management reporting, accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . Certain corporate-level activity has been excluded from our segment operating results and presented separately. Prior period amounts have been recast conform the way internally manage and monitor performance the segment level during the current period. Client ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Client offerings consist premium and standard edition Windows operating systems. Premium editions are those that include additional functionality and are sold price above our standard editions. Premium editions include Windows Vista Business, Windows Vista Home Premium, Windows Vista Ultimate, Windows Vista Enterprise, Windows Professional, Windows Media Center Edition, and Windows Tablet Edition. Standard editions include Windows Vista Home Basic and Windows Home. Client revenue growth generally correlates with the growth purchases from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. The differences between unit growth rates and revenue growth rates from year year are affected changes the mix OEM Windows operating systems licensed with premium edition operating systems percentage total OEM Windows operating systems licensed (\x93OEM premium mix\x94), changes the geographical mix, and changes the channel mix products sold large, multi-national OEMs versus those sold local and regional system builders. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Client revenue increased reflecting growth licensing Windows Vista. the end fiscal year , more than million Windows Vista licenses had been sold (approximately million were sold during fiscal year ) and millions enterprise seats had been deployed. OEM revenue increased $ billion %, driven % growth OEM license units. Revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems increased $ million %, primarily from Enterprise Agreements and anti-piracy efforts emerging markets. During the year, the OEM premium mix increased seven percentage points %, reflecting strong demand for Windows Vista Home Premium. Based our estimates, total worldwide shipments from all sources grew approximately % %, driven demand both emerging and mature markets. PAGE Part Item Client operating income increased reflecting increased revenue, partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses and cost revenue. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased expenses associated with our corporate sales force. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven Windows Vista product costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Client revenue increased primarily reflecting licensing Windows Vista. OEM revenue increased $ billion % driven % growth OEM license units while revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems increased $ million %. During the year, the OEM premium mix increased percentage points %. estimate total worldwide shipments from all sources grew % % driven demand both emerging and mature markets. Client operating income increased reflecting the increased revenue and decreased research and development costs, partially offset increased Windows Vista product costs and sales and marketing expenses for launch-related programs. The decrease research and development expenses reflected the capitalization certain Windows Vista software development costs and completion product development Windows Vista. Headcount-related expenses decreased %, primarily driven decrease headcount during the year. Fiscal Year Outlook expect market growth will exceed Client revenue growth. believe unit growth rates will higher the consumer segment than the business segment and higher emerging markets than mature markets. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Server and Tools concentrates licensing products, applications, tools, content, and services that make information technology professionals and developers more productive and efficient. Server and Tools offerings consist server software licenses and client access licenses (\x93CAL\x94) for Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, and other server products. also offer developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier and Professional product support services, and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server products can run -site, hosted environment, Web-based environment. use multiple channels for licensing, including pre-installed OEM versions, licenses through partners, and licenses directly end customers. sell licenses both one-time licenses and multi-year volume licenses. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Server and Tools revenue increased reflecting growth product and services revenue and included favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates $ million four percentage points. Server and server application revenue (including CAL revenue) and developer tools revenue increased $ billion %, primarily driven growth volume licensing Windows Server and SQL Server products. This growth reflects broad adoption the Windows Platform and applications with the releases Windows Server and Visual Studio during the fiscal year. Consulting and Premier and Professional product support services revenue increased $ million %, primarily due higher demand for consulting and support services corporate enterprises. Server and Tools operating income increased primarily due growth high-margin product revenue, partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses, cost revenue, and research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, due higher expenses associated with our corporate sales force. Cost revenue increased $ million %, reflecting the growth Consulting and Premier and PAGE Part Item Professional product support services. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily driven increased headcount-related expenses. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount during the year. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Server and server application revenue (including CAL revenue) and developer tools, training, and certification revenue increased $ billion %, and included favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates $ million two percentage points. The increase server and server application revenue was primarily driven increased revenue associated with SQL Server, Windows Server, and Visual Studio. The results reflect broad adoption Windows Server products, especially SQL Server which grew over %. Consulting and Premier and Professional product support services revenue increased $ million %, primarily due higher demand for Premier services corporate enterprises. Server and Tools operating income increased reflecting the increased revenue, partially offset growth headcount-related expenses and cost revenue for services. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount during the year. Cost revenue increased $ million %, reflecting growth Consulting and Premier and Professional product support services. Fiscal Year Outlook expect continued growth both product and services revenue driven strong customer demand for the recently released Windows Server and Visual Studio and upcoming release SQL Server . Online Services Business ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income (loss) $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ ( )% * * Not meaningful Online Services Business (\x93OSB\x94) consists -line advertising platform with offerings for both publishers and advertisers, personal communications services such email and instant messaging, online information offerings such Live Search, and the MSN portals and channels around the world. earn revenue primarily from online advertising, including search, display, and email and messaging services. Revenue also generated through subscriptions and transactions generated from online paid services, from advertiser and publisher tools, digital marketing and advertising agency services, and from MSN narrowband Internet access subscribers. continue launch new online offerings and expect the future. During fiscal year , launched new releases Windows Live Search, the Windows Live suite applications and services, and updated our MSN Video Service. addition, launched new release adCenter and expanded our advertising platform portfolio. During the first quarter fiscal year , completed our acquisition aQuantive, Inc. (\x93aQuantive\x94), digital marketing business which expect will play key role the development our advertising business. aQuantive earns revenue from online advertising and from digital marketing and advertising agency services. believe the acquisition will help build and support next-generation advertiser and publisher solutions environments such cross-media planning, video- -demand, and Internet protocol television. aQuantive was consolidated into our results operations starting August , , the acquisition date. Proposed Acquisition Yahoo! Inc. accelerate our advertising strategy, during fiscal year submitted proposal the Yahoo! Inc. board directors acquire all the outstanding shares Yahoo!. After careful consideration, determined that the price demanded Yahoo! was not the best interest our shareholders and withdrew our proposal acquire the PAGE Part Item company. Subsequently, submitted several proposals purchase Yahoo!\x92 search business and make investment Yahoo!, all which were rejected Yahoo!. continue invest heavily new tools, Web experiences, improved search performance, and advertiser satisfaction, and will continue seek build our scale through organic growth, partnerships, and strategic acquisitions. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year OSB revenue increased driven increased online advertising revenue and the inclusion aQuantive revenue, partially offset decreased access revenue. Online advertising revenue increased $ million %, $ billion. This increase reflects growth our existing online advertising business and includes aQuantive online advertising revenue $ million. Agency revenue, which solely derived from aQuantive, was $ million during the year. Access revenue decreased $ million %, $ million, reflecting migration subscribers broadband other competitively-priced service providers. June , , estimate had approximately million Windows Live IDs compared with million the same date last year. OSB operating loss increased driven increased cost revenue and other operating expenses, partially offset increased revenue. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven increased data center and equipment costs, online content expenses, and aQuantive-related expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily due increased amortization customer-related intangible assets $ million, increased headcount-related expenses, and increased marketing costs. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, and general and administrative expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased headcount-related expenses and merger and acquisition-related expenses. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount during the year. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year OSB revenue increased driven primarily advertising revenue which grew $ million %, $ billion. This increase was primarily due growth advertising for search, home page, email, and messaging services. The increase advertising revenue was partially offset $ million % decrease access revenue. OSB operating loss increased driven primarily increased cost revenue which grew $ million %, and increased headcount-related expenses result continued search and advertising platform investments. The increase cost revenue was primarily driven increased data center costs, online content expenses, and royalties. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount during the year. Fiscal Year Outlook expect revenue, including advertising revenue, increase fiscal year begin see returns from investments have made, including our acquisition aQuantive. also expect operating expenses increase continue invest our long-term strategy. Microsoft Business Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Microsoft Business Division (\x93MBD\x94) offerings consist the Microsoft Office system and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity through range programs, services, and software solutions. Growth revenue from the Microsoft Office system offerings, which generate over % MBD revenue, depends our ability add value the core Office product set and continue expand our product offerings other information worker areas such enterprise content management, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Microsoft PAGE Part Item Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. evaluate our results based upon the nature the end user two primary parts: business revenue, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue, and consumer revenue, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. April , completed our acquisition Fast Search & Transfer ASA (\x93FAST\x94), enterprise search company. believe the acquisition will broaden our enterprise search technology product offerings businesses and will enable innovations related areas such our portal and content management. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year MBD revenue increased reflecting growth licensing the Microsoft Office system and included favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates $ million four percentage points. Business revenue increased $ billion %, primarily result growth volume licensing agreement revenue and strong transactional license sales businesses. The increase business revenue also included % increase Microsoft Dynamics customer billings. Consumer revenue decreased $ million %, reflecting the consumer launch the Microsoft Office system the prior fiscal year. MBD operating income increased reflecting growth revenue, partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, and cost revenue. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, reflecting increased expenses associated with our corporate sales force. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily driven increase headcount-related expenses and $ million -process research and development expense related the acquisition FAST. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven increase online services infrastructure costs and product costs related retail packaged product sales. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount during the year. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year MBD revenue increased primarily reflecting licensing the Microsoft Office system and included favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates $ million two percentage points. Revenue from consumer sales increased $ million % while revenue from business sales increased $ billion %. The increase business revenue included % increase Microsoft Dynamics customer billings. MBD operating income increased reflecting the increased revenue, partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses and cost revenue primarily associated with the Microsoft Office system. The increase sales and marketing expenses reflected increased headcount-related expenses, increased sales support costs from our Enterprise Software Advisor channel partners, and increased launch-related marketing expenses. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount during the year. Fiscal Year Outlook expect revenue continue increase over the prior year due the strong performance the Microsoft Office system and business demand for other applications. Fiscal year represents important year delivering our software plus services strategy with the upcoming releases Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, and Office Communication Server Online. Entertainment and Devices Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income (loss) $ $ ( , ) $ ( , ) * ( )% * Not meaningful PAGE Part Item Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) offerings include the Xbox platform (which includes the Microsoft Xbox video game console system, Xbox video games, Xbox Live, and Xbox accessories), the Zune digital music and entertainment platform, software games, online games and services, Mediaroom (our Internet protocol television software), the Surface computing platform, mobile and embedded device platforms, and other devices. EDD leads the development efforts for our line consumer software and hardware products including application software for Macintosh computers and Microsoft hardware products, and responsible for all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office and the Windows operating systems. April , acquired Danger, Inc. (\x93Danger\x94), software- - -service company that provides mobile operators with integrated end- -end solution deliver mobile data and Internet services their subscribers. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year EDD revenue increased primarily due increased Xbox platform sales. Xbox platform and game revenue increased $ billion % result increased Xbox console sales, video game sales led Halo , Xbox Live revenue, and Xbox accessory sales. shipped million Xbox consoles during fiscal year , compared with million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . EDD operating income increased primarily due increased revenue and decreased cost revenue, partially offset increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses. Cost revenue decreased $ million %, reflecting the impact the $ billion Xbox charge fiscal year (which primarily related the warranty expansion), partially offset increased Xbox product costs related increased unit console sales. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased headcount-related expenses and costs related the acquisition Danger, including $ million -process research and development expense. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased headcount-related expenses and increased bad debt expense. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount during the year. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year EDD revenue increased primarily due increased Xbox platform and Zune sales. shipped million Xbox consoles during fiscal year compared million consoles during fiscal year . Xbox and game revenue increased $ million % result increased Xbox platform sales, partially offset decreased sales the first generation Xbox console and related accessories and video games. Zune, consumer hardware and software, and Mediaroom revenue increased $ million % primarily driven the Zune launch November . EDD operating loss increased primarily due the $ billion Xbox charge recognized the fourth quarter fiscal year and Zune launch-related expenses. The increase operating loss was partially offset increased Xbox platform sales and decreased Xbox console manufacturing costs. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount during the year. Fiscal Year Outlook expect revenue flat decrease due year-over-year variations product launches, volume, mix, and prices across our portfolio products and services. expect sustained profitability for fiscal year . Corporate-Level Activity ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus Corporate-level activity $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( )% % Certain corporate-level activity, including expenses related corporate operations associated with broad-based sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, information technology, corporate development and procurement activities, research and development and other costs, and legal settlements and contingencies, not allocated our segments. PAGE Part Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate-level expenses increased during fiscal year , reflecting increased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies and % increase headcount-related expenses. incurred $ billion legal charges during the year primarily related the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million) compared with $ million legal charges during the prior year. The increase headcount-related expenses reflects increase headcount during the year. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate-level expenses increased primarily driven increased headcount-related expenses offset decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. incurred $ million legal charges during fiscal year , primarily related antitrust and unfair competition consumer class actions, intellectual property claims, and extension payment Sun Microsystems, Inc. under our Limited Patent Covenant and Standstill Agreement. incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year which included settlement expense $ million related our settlement with RealNetworks, Inc. well other intellectual property and antitrust matters, $ million ( \x80 million) fine imposed the European Commission July related its decision its competition law investigation Microsoft, and extension payment Sun Microsystems, Inc. Operating Expenses Cost Revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus Cost revenue $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % ( )ppt ppt Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, warranty costs, inventory valuation adjustments, costs associated with the delivery consulting services, and the amortization capitalized research and development costs associated with software products that have reached technological feasibility. Cost revenue increased fiscal year , reflecting increased data center and equipment costs, online content expenses, and increased costs associated with the growth our consulting services, partially offset decreased Xbox costs. Xbox costs decreased because the $ billion charge fiscal year (which primarily related the expansion our Xbox warranty coverage), partially offset increased Xbox product costs, reflecting growth unit console sales. Cost revenue increased fiscal year , primarily driven the Xbox warranty charge, increased Windows Vista product costs, increased OSB data center costs, and costs associated with the growth consulting services. Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus Research and development $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % \x96 ppt ( )ppt PAGE Part Item Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, the amortization purchased software code and services content, and -process research and development. Research and development expenses increased during fiscal year reflecting increased headcount-related expenses, increased product development costs, and -process research and development expenses related acquisitions during the year. Headcount-related expenses increased % during fiscal year , reflecting increase headcount during the year. Research and development costs increased during fiscal year , primarily due increased headcount-related expenses which grew %, reflecting growth headcount during the year. Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus Sales and marketing $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % \x96 ppt \x96 ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased during fiscal year , primarily reflecting increased headcount-related expenses and increased corporate marketing and advertising campaigns. Headcount-related expenses increased % during fiscal year , reflecting increase headcount during the year. Sales and marketing expenses increased during fiscal year primarily because increased headcount-related expenses and increased marketing costs related product launches. Headcount-related expenses increased % during fiscal year , driven increase headcount during the year. General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus General and administrative $ , $ , $ , % ( )% percent revenue % % % ppt ( )ppt General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources, other administrative headcount, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative expenses increased during fiscal year , reflecting increased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies, increased consulting and professional fees, and increased headcount-related expenses. incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year , primarily related the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million) compared with $ million legal charges during fiscal year . Headcount-related expenses increased % during fiscal year , reflecting increase headcount during the year. During fiscal year , incurred $ million legal charges primarily related antitrust and unfair competition consumer class actions, intellectual property claims, and extension payment Sun Microsystems, Inc. compared with $ billion legal charges fiscal year . Headcount-related expenses increased % during fiscal year , driven increase headcount during the year. PAGE Part Item Investment Income and Other The components investment income and other were follows: ( millions) Percentage Change versus Percentage Change versus Dividends and interest $ $ , $ , ( )% ( )% Net recognized gains investments ( )% % Net gains (losses) derivatives ( ) ( ) * % Other ( ) ( ) % * Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , ( )% ( )% * Not meaningful Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income decreased reflecting lower interest rates our fixed-income investments and reduction the average balance interest-bearing investments owned. Net recognized gains investments, which include other-than-temporary impairments $ million during fiscal year and $ million during fiscal year , decreased primarily due declines equity values result the recent stock market decline. Net gains derivatives increased primarily due higher net gains equity, commodity, and interest rate derivatives. Other $ million includes the correction several immaterial items from prior periods. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income declined reflecting decline the average balance dividend and interest-bearing investments owned, partly offset higher interest rates received our fixed-income investments. Net recognized gains investments, which include other-than-temporary impairments $ million during fiscal year and $ million fiscal year , increased primarily due lower other-than-temporary impairments and gains sales fixed-income investments compared losses fiscal year , partly offset fewer gains the sale equity investments. Derivative losses were primarily driven net losses time value foreign currency contracts used hedge anticipated foreign currency revenues. Other fiscal year includes $ million gains that resulted from the restructuring joint venture relationships between Microsoft and NBC related MSNBC Cable . and MSNBC Interactive News, . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash collateral recorded asset with corresponding liability. use derivative instruments manage exposures interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency markets and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses arising from derivatives not designated accounting hedges are large part economically offset unrealized losses and gains, respectively, the underlying securities which are recorded component other comprehensive income. PAGE Part Item Income Taxes Our effective tax rates for fiscal years , , and were %, %, and %, respectively. Our effective tax rates are less than the statutory tax rate due foreign earnings taxed lower rates. The decreased rate fiscal year resulted from resolution tax positions related our settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (\x93IRS\x94) for its - examination. This decline was partially offset the tax effect the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million), which was not tax deductible. The fiscal year rate reflects recurring effective tax rate %, offset $ million reduction resulting from various changes tax positions taken prior periods, related primarily favorable developments IRS position and multiple foreign audit assessments. During fiscal year , recorded tax benefit $ million from the resolution state audits and recorded charge $ million ( \x80 million) from the European Commission fine which was not tax deductible. July , , adopted the provisions the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) Interpretation . (\x93FIN \x94) Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . , which provides financial statement recognition threshold and measurement attribute for tax position taken expected taken tax return. Adopting FIN had the following impact our financial statements: increased current assets $ million, long-term assets $ billion, long-term liabilities $ billion, and our retained deficit $ million; and decreased our income taxes payable $ million. June , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. July , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. Our policy include interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits income tax expense. Interest totaled $ million fiscal year . June , and July , , had accrued interest related uncertain tax positions $ million and $ million, respectively, net federal income tax benefits, our balance sheets. Financial Condition Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $ billion and $ billion June , and , respectively. Equity and other investments were $ billion and $ billion June , and , respectively. Our investments consist primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly .-dollar-denominated securities, but also includes foreign-denominated securities order diversify financial risk. result the special dividend paid the second quarter fiscal year and shares repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $ billion June , . Our retained deficit not expected impact our future ability operate pay dividends given our continuing profitability and strong cash and financial position. general, and where applicable, use quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities price positions. This pricing methodology applies exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, . treasuries, and agency securities. quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities are not available price positions, then use inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly indirectly. Assets and liabilities measured using unobservable inputs are immaterial portion our portfolio. While own certain mortgage- and asset-backed fixed-income securities, our portfolio June , does not contain direct exposure subprime mortgages structured vehicles that derive their value from subprime collateral. The majority the mortgage-backed securities are collateralized prime residential mortgages and carry % principal and interest guarantee, primarily from Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and Government National Mortgage Association. The remainder the mortgage position collateralized high quality international prime residential mortgage loans. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue comprised the following items: Volume licensing programs \x96 Represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. PAGE Part Item Undelivered elements \x96 Represents free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. This revenue deferral applicable for Windows and prior versions shipped retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEM\x94), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs. The amount recorded unearned based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home and approximately % % the sales price for Windows Professional, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and one-half years for Windows operating systems. Other \x96 Represents payments for post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future, online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed, Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products, Xbox Live subscriptions, Mediaroom, and other offerings for which have been paid upfront and earn the revenue when provide the service software, otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected recognition unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Recognition Unearned Revenue Three months ended: September , $ , December , , March , , June , , Thereafter , Unearned revenue $ , Cash Flows Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flow from operations increased $ billion due increase cash received from customers driven % revenue growth, partially offset the $ billion ( \x80 million) payment the European Commission fine. Cash used for financing decreased $ billion primarily due $ billion decrease common stock repurchases, partially offset $ billion decrease cash proceeds from the issuance common stock. Cash used for investing was $ billion for fiscal year compared with cash provided $ billion for fiscal year . This decrease was primarily due $ billion increase cash paid for acquisition companies, reflecting the purchase aQuantive the first quarter fiscal year , $ million increase purchases property and equipment, and $ billion decrease cash from combined investment purchases, sales, and maturities. result our settlement related the - examination, paid the IRS approximately $ billion during the first quarter fiscal year . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flow from operations increased $ billion due increase cash received from customers driven % revenue growth, along with $ billion decrease cash outflow for other current assets primarily reflecting changes inventory. Cash used for financing increased $ billion. Several events occurred during fiscal year affecting cash used for financing. issued $ billion common stock, including $ billion related million call options exercised JPMorgan December . also completed our tender offer August , , which was included the $ billion common stock repurchases. Cash from investing decreased $ billion due $ billion decline securities lending activity where cash collateral received from the counterparty along with $ billion spent acquisitions companies and additions property and equipment. These impacts were partially offset $ billion increase net cash from combined investment purchases, sales, and maturities. PAGE Part Item have material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ billion June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment under which incurred rental expense totaling $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability capital resources. During fiscal years and , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) (Fiscal year ) September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , (Fiscal year ) September , $ November , $ December , December , $ February , $ March , March , $ May , $ June , June , $ August , $ September , July , , announced the completion the repurchase program initially approved our Board Directors July , buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. During fiscal year , repurchased million shares, $ billion, our common stock under this plan. July , , announced that our Board Directors authorized two new share repurchase programs: $ billion tender offer, which was completed August , ; and authorization for additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program with expiration June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares common stock, % our common shares outstanding, for approximately $ billion price per share $ . August , , announced that the authorization for the $ billion ongoing share repurchase program had been increased approximately $ billion. result, were authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . June , , approximately $ billion remained the $ billion approved repurchase amount. believe existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations, should sufficient meet operating requirements, regular quarterly dividends, and planned share repurchases. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and short-term investments, well equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements related research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. regularly assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations provide indemnifications varying scope and amount certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for these indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FASB Interpretation . , Guarantor\x92 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees Indebtedness Others . consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result these obligations and have not accrued any material liabilities related these indemnifications our financial statements. PAGE Part Item Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) Payments due period Fiscal Years - - and thereafter Total Long-term debt $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 Construction commitments ( )( ) , \x96 \x96 \x96 , Lease obligations: Capital leases \x96 \x96 \x96 Operating leases ( ) , Purchase commitments ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Other long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 \x96 Total contractual obligations ( ) $ , $ $ $ $ , ( ) have certain commitments for the construction buildings. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) The amounts presented purchase and construction commitments include all known open purchase orders and all known contracts that are take- -pay contracts. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Our future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases comprise the majority the operating lease obligations presented above. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) have excluded long-term tax contingencies and other tax liabilities $ billion and other long-term contingent liabilities approximately $ million (related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits) from the amounts presented the amounts that will settled cash are not known. have also excluded non-cash items $ million and unearned revenue $ billion. ( ) have excluded $ billion current taxes payable from the amounts presented. This amount was paid the IRS during the first quarter fiscal year result our settlement related the - examination. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements July , , adopted FIN which provides financial statement recognition threshold and measurement attribute for tax position taken expected taken tax return. Under FIN , may recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such position should measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN also provides guidance derecognition income tax assets and liabilities, classification current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Upon adoption, recognized $ million charge our beginning retained deficit cumulative effect change accounting principle. See Note \x96 Income Taxes the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ). July , , adopted Emerging Issues Task Force Issue . - (\x93EITF - \x94), Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits Pursuant FASB Statement . . EITF - requires companies accrue the costs compensated absences under sabbatical similar benefit arrangement over the requisite service period. Upon adoption, recognized $ million charge our beginning retained deficit cumulative effect change accounting principle. PAGE Part Item Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted March , the FASB issued SFAS . , Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, amendment FASB Statement . , which requires additional disclosures about the objectives the derivative instruments and hedging activities, the method accounting for such instruments under SFAS . and its related interpretations, and tabular disclosure the effects such instruments and related hedged items our financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS . effective for beginning January , . are currently assessing the potential impact that adoption SFAS . may have our financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . 141R, Business Combinations , which replaces SFAS . . The statement retains the purchase method accounting for acquisitions, but requires number changes, including changes the way assets and liabilities are recognized the purchase accounting. also changes the recognition assets acquired and liabilities assumed arising from contingencies, requires the capitalization -process research and development fair value, and requires the expensing acquisition-related costs incurred. SFAS . 141R effective for beginning July , and will apply prospectively business combinations completed after that date. December , the FASB issued SFAS . , Noncontrolling Interests Consolidated Financial Statements, amendment ARB . , which changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests. Minority interests will recharacterized noncontrolling interests and will reported component equity separate from the parent\x92 equity, and purchases sales equity interests that not result change control will accounted for equity transactions. addition, net income attributable the noncontrolling interest will included consolidated net income the face the income statement and, upon loss control, the interest sold, well any interest retained, will recorded fair value with any gain loss recognized earnings. SFAS . effective for beginning July , and will apply prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which will apply retrospectively. are currently assessing the potential impact that adoption SFAS . may have our financial statements. February , the FASB issued SFAS . , The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . SFAS . gives the irrevocable option carry many financial assets and liabilities fair values, with changes fair value recognized earnings. SFAS . effective for beginning July , . not believe SFAS . will have material impact our financial statements. September , the FASB issued SFAS . , Fair Value Measurements , which defines fair value, establishes framework for measuring fair value generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This statement does not require any new fair value measurements, but provides guidance how measure fair value providing fair value hierarchy used classify the source the information. February , the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (\x93FSP\x94) - , Effective Date FASB Statement . , which delays the effective date SFAS . for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis ( least annually). SFAS . effective for beginning July , ; FSP - delays the effective date for certain items July , . not believe SFAS . will have material impact our financial statements. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for contingencies, accounting for income taxes, accounting for stock-based compensation, and accounting for product warranties. account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants Statement Position (\x93SOP\x94) - , Software Revenue Recognition . The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94) fair value exists for those elements. For some our products, customers receive certain PAGE Part Item elements our products over period time. These elements include free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The fair value these elements recognized over the estimated life cycle for the Windows and previous operating systems. For Windows Vista, there are significant undelivered elements and accordingly, license revenue deferred for Windows Vista sales. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities , and Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities , provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry, and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (July for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. allocate goodwill reporting units based the reporting unit expected benefit from the combination. evaluate our reporting units annual basis and, necessary, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. account for research and development costs accordance with applicable accounting pronouncements, including SFAS . , Accounting for Research and Development Costs , and SFAS . , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . SFAS . specifies that costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product should charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released manufacturing. The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , requires that estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our results operations, financial position, our cash flows. PAGE Part Item SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Accruals for uncertain tax positions are provided for accordance with the requirements FIN . Under FIN , may recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such position should measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN also provides guidance derecognition income tax assets and liabilities, classification current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows. account for stock-based compensation accordance with SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment . Under the fair value recognition provisions this statement, share-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the fair value the award and recognized expense over the requisite service period. Determining the fair value share-based awards the grant date requires judgment, including estimating expected dividends. addition, judgment also required estimating the amount share-based awards that are expected forfeited. actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results operations could materially impacted. account for product warranties accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies . provide for the estimated costs hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranty, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and country which business, but generally include parts and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software warranty, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. PAGE Part Item Statement Management\x92 Responsibility for Financial Statements Management responsible for the preparation the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based management\x92 estimates and judgments, have been prepared conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems provide reasonable assurance reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented written policies, organizational structure providing division responsibilities, careful selection and training qualified personnel, and program internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, audit and render opinion the consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely independent directors the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm ensure that each meeting its responsibilities and discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access the Audit Committee. Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer PAGE Part Item ', 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK are exposed foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity, and commodity price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results operations, financial position, and cash flows. hedge portion anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed-income securities and interest rate derivatives are subject primarily interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and structured minimize credit risk. Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio and equity derivatives are subject price risk, and generally are not hedged. However, use put-call collars hedge our price risk certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. Commodity derivatives held for the purpose portfolio diversification are subject commodity price risk. use value- -risk (\x93VaR\x94) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VaR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VaR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. The model used for currencies, equities, and commodities geometric Brownian motion, which allows incorporation optionality with regard these risk exposures. For interest rate risk, exposures such key rate durations and spread durations are used calculations that reflect the principle that fixed-income security prices revert maturity value over time. VaR calculated computing the exposures each holding\x92 market value range over , equity, fixed-income, foreign exchange, and commodity risk factors. The exposures are then used compute the parameters distribution potential changes the total market value all holdings, taking into account the weighted historical volatilities the different rates and prices and the weighted historical correlations among the different rates and prices. The VaR then calculated the total loss that will not exceeded the percentile confidence level , alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the VaR out , cases. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. Certain securities our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. hedge the value portion these securities through the use derivative contracts such put-call collars. these arrangements, hedge security\x92 equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most all the benefits the security\x92 appreciation above the sold call strike. also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. The VaR amounts disclosed below are used risk management tool and reflect estimate potential reductions fair value our portfolio. Losses fair value over the specified holding period can exceed the reported VaR significant amounts and can also accumulate over longer time horizon than the specified holding period used the VaR analysis. VaR amounts are not necessarily reflective potential accounting losses, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with . GAAP. VaR numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency rate, equity price, and commodity price risks. These VaR numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. use historical data estimate VaR. Given the reliance historical data, VaR most effective estimating risk exposures markets which there are fundamental changes shifts market conditions. inherent limitation VaR that the distribution past changes market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions future market risk. The following table sets forth the one-day VaR for substantially all our positions and for the years ended June , and : ( millions) Year ended June , Risk Categories June , June , Average High Low Interest rates $ $ $ $ $ Currency rates Equity prices Commodity prices Total one-day VaR for the combined risk categories was $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VaR % less June , , and % less June , , than the sum the separate risk categories the above table due the diversification benefit the overall portfolio. PAGE Part Item ', 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Investment income and other , , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments (including securities pledged collateral $ , and $ , ) , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ and $ , , Inventories , Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net accumulated depreciation $ , and $ , , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net , Deferred income taxes , Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Securities lending payable , , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Other long-term liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ , and $ , ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , Stock-based compensation , , , Net recognized gains investments ( ) ( ) ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based payment arrangements ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred income taxes Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other current assets ( , ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities ( ) ( ) ( ) Other long-term liabilities ( ) , , Net cash from operations , , , Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based payment arrangements Other \x96 ( ) \x96 Net cash used financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Securities lending payable ( ) ( ) , Net cash from (used ) investing ( , ) , , Effect exchange rates cash and cash equivalents Net change cash and cash equivalents , ( ) , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and cash equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock option income tax benefits (deficiencies) ( ) ( ) Other, net Balance, end period , , , Retained earnings (deficit) Balance, beginning period ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x96 adoption FIN ( ) ( ) \x96 \x96 Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x96 adoption EITF - ( ) ( ) \x96 \x96 Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Net unrealized gains derivative instruments Net unrealized gains (losses) investments ( ) ( ) Translation adjustments and other Comprehensive income , , , Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , ( ) See Note Notes Financial Statements. See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. PRINCIPLES CONSOLIDATION The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which exercise significant influence but not control and are not the primary beneficiary are accounted for using the equity method. Investments which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee and which not have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the cost method. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies, product warranties, product life cycles, product returns, and stock-based compensation forfeiture rates; assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; estimating the fair value and goodwill impairment for our reporting units; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited Other Comprehensive Income (\x93OCI\x94). REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. enter into certain arrangements where are obligated deliver multiple products and services (multiple elements). these arrangements, generally allocate the total revenue among the elements based the sales price each element when sold separately (vendor-specific objective evidence). Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped. portion the revenue related certain products, which include all Windows and previous operating systems, recorded unearned due undelivered elements including, some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the vendor-specific objective evidence fair value for those elements using the residual method. Under the residual method, the total fair value the undelivered elements, indicated vendor-specific objective evidence, recorded unearned, and the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount recorded unearned for the undelivered elements recognized revenue related delivered elements. Unearned revenue due undelivered elements recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Revenue related Windows Vista not subject similar deferral because there are significant undelivered elements. Revenue from multi-year licensing arrangements are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include rights receive future versions software product when-and- -available basis under Open and Select volume licensing programs (Software Assurance). addition, other multi-year licensing PAGE Part Item arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis under Open, Select, and Enterprise Agreement volume licensing programs. Premier support services agreements, MSN Internet Access subscriptions, Xbox Live, and Microsoft Developer Network subscriptions are also accounted for subscriptions. Revenue related our Xbox game console and other hardware components recognized upon shipment the product retailers. Revenue related games published recognized when those games have been delivered retailers. Revenue related games published third parties for use the Xbox platform recognized when games are manufactured the game publishers. Online advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Consulting revenue for fixed-price services arrangements recognized services are provided. Revenue generally recognized net any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted governmental authorities. Costs related insignificant obligations, including bug fixes and technical support, are accrued when the related revenue recognized. Provisions are recorded for estimated returns, concessions, warranties, and bad debts. COST REVENUE Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, warranty costs, inventory write-downs, costs associated with the delivery consulting services, and the amortization capitalized research and development costs associated with software products that have reached technological feasibility. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, the amortization purchased software code and services content, and -process research and development. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. The amortization these costs included cost revenue over the estimated lives the products. SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the cost advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. PRODUCT WARRANTY provide for the estimated costs hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranty, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and country which business, but generally include parts and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software warranty, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the estimated life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. PAGE Part Item STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION account for stock-based compensation accordance with SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment . Under the fair value recognition provisions this statement, share-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the fair value the award and recognized expense over the applicable vesting period the stock award (generally three five years) using the straight-line method. INCOME TAXES Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. The fair value these investments approximates their carrying value. general, investments with original maturities greater than three months and remaining maturities less than one year are classified short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method. Changes market value are reflected OCI (excluding other-than-temporary impairments). Equity and other investments classified long-term include both debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Changes market value are reflected OCI (excluding other-than-temporary impairments). All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities enhance investment income. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Collateral and security interest received determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash collateral recorded asset with corresponding liability. Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology quarterly basis that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. use derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, equity price, interest rate and credit risks, enhance returns, and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instrument designated fair-value hedge, the gain loss recognized earnings the period change together with the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the risk being hedged. For derivative instrument designated cash-flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component OCI and subsequently recognized earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss recognized earnings. For options designated either fair-value cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges for accounting purposes are recognized earnings. PAGE Part Item Foreign Currency Risk. Certain assets, liabilities, and forecasted transactions are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Options are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash-flow hedging instruments under Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Certain non- . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair-value hedging instruments under SFAS . . Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies and manage other foreign currency exposures. Equities Price Risk. Equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, use and designate options hedge fair values certain equity securities. determine the security selected for hedging evaluating market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Certain options, futures, and swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , are also used manage equity exposures. Interest Rate Risk. Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. use exchange-traded option and futures contracts and over-the-counter swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , hedge interest rate risk. Other Derivatives. Swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , are used manage exposures credit risks, enhance returns, and facilitate portfolio diversification. addition, may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets are also considered derivatives cases where physical delivery the assets not taken the earliest available delivery date. All derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments are recorded fair value, with changes value recognized earnings during the period change. ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Write-offs and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis. PAGE Part Item PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally three years less. GOODWILL Goodwill tested for impairment annual basis July , and between annual tests indicators potential impairment exist, using fair-value-based approach. impairment goodwill has been identified during any the periods presented. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one ten years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically and take into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. All our intangible assets are subject amortization. material impairments intangible assets have been identified during any the periods presented. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements July , , adopted the provisions Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) Interpretation . (\x93FIN \x94), Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . , which provides financial statement recognition threshold and measurement attribute for tax position taken expected taken tax return. Under FIN , may recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such position should measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN also provides guidance derecognition income tax assets and liabilities, classification current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Upon adoption, recognized $ million charge our beginning retained deficit cumulative effect change accounting principle. See Note \x96 Income Taxes. July , , adopted Emerging Issues Task Force Issue . - (\x93EITF - \x94), Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits Pursuant FASB Statement . . EITF - requires companies accrue the costs compensated absences under sabbatical similar benefit arrangement over the requisite service period. Upon adoption, recognized $ million charge our beginning retained deficit cumulative effect change accounting principle. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted March , the FASB issued SFAS . , Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, amendment FAS , which requires additional disclosures about the objectives derivative instruments and hedging activities, the method accounting for those instruments under SFAS . and its related interpretations, and tabular disclosure the effects those instruments and related hedged items our financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS . effective for beginning January , . are currently assessing the potential impact that adoption SFAS . may have our financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . 141R, Business Combinations , which replaces SFAS . The statement retains the purchase method accounting for acquisitions, but requires number changes, including changes the way assets and liabilities are recognized the purchase accounting. also changes the recognition assets acquired and liabilities assumed arising from contingencies, requires the capitalization -process research and development fair value, and requires the expensing acquisition-related costs incurred. SFAS . 141R effective for beginning July , and will apply prospectively business combinations completed after that date. PAGE Part Item December , the FASB issued SFAS . , Noncontrolling Interests Consolidated Financial Statements, amendment ARB , which changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests. Minority interests will recharacterized noncontrolling interests and will reported component equity separate from the parent\x92 equity, and purchases sales equity interests that not result change control will accounted for equity transactions. addition, net income attributable the noncontrolling interest will included consolidated net income the face the income statement and, upon loss control, the interest sold, well any interest retained, will recorded fair value with any gain loss recognized earnings. SFAS . effective for beginning July , and will apply prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which will apply retrospectively. are currently assessing the potential impact that adoption SFAS . may have our financial statements. February , the FASB issued SFAS . , The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . SFAS . gives the irrevocable option carry many financial assets and liabilities fair value, with changes fair value recognized earnings. SFAS . effective for beginning July , . not believe SFAS . will have material impact our financial statements. September , the FASB issued SFAS . , Fair Value Measurements , which defines fair value, establishes framework for measuring fair value generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This statement does not require any new fair value measurements, but provides guidance how measure fair value providing fair value hierarchy used classify the source the information. February , the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (\x93FSP\x94) - , Effective Date FASB Statement . , which delays the effective date SFAS . for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis ( least annually). SFAS . effective for beginning July , ; FSP - delays the effective date for certain items July , . not believe SFAS . will have material impact our financial statements. NOTE EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components basic and diluted earnings per share are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June , Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect employee stock options and awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings per share: Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ For the years ended June , , and , million, million, and million shares, respectively, were attributable outstanding stock options and were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices the stock options were greater than equal the average price the common shares, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. For the year ended June , , four million shared performance stock awards, out the million targeted amount outstanding, were excluded from the calculation the diluted earnings per share because the number shares ultimately issued was contingent our performance against metrics established for the performance period, discussed Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plans. PAGE Part Item NOTE INVESTMENT INCOME AND OTHER The components investment income and other were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Dividends and interest $ $ , $ , Net recognized gains investments Net gains (losses) derivatives ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments included other-than-temporary impairments $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. Realized gains and losses from sales available-for-sale securities (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) were $ million and $ million, respectively, fiscal year , $ million and $ million, respectively, fiscal year , and $ billion and $ million, respectively, fiscal year . PAGE Part Item NOTE INVESTMENTS The components investments, including associated derivatives, were follows: ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and cash equivalents Short-term investments Equity and other investments June , Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds , ( ) , Commercial paper \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit , \x96 \x96 , , \x96 . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , , Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , , \x96 Municipal securities ( ) \x96 Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock \x96 \x96 \x96 Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and cash equivalents Short-term investments Equity and other investments June , Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds ( ) Commercial paper \x96 \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , \x96 Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock \x96 \x96 \x96 Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 ( ) Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item Investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than months and months greater and their related fair values were follows: Less than months months greater Total ( millions) Fair value unrealized losses Fair value unrealized losses Total fair value unrealized losses June , Mutual funds $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) . Government and Agency securities ( ) \x96 \x96 ( ) Foreign government bonds , ( ) \x96 \x96 , ( ) Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) \x96 \x96 , ( ) Corporate notes and bonds ( ) ( ) , ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Common stock and equivalents ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Less than months months greater Total ( millions) Fair value unrealized losses Fair value unrealized losses Total fair value unrealized losses June , Mutual funds $ $ ( ) $ $ \x96 $ $ ( ) . Government and Agency securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Foreign government bonds , ( ) \x96 , ( ) Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Corporate notes and bonds ( ) ( ) ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Common stock and equivalents ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) June , , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed-income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed-income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities, and $ million related international equity securities. June , , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed-income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed-income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities, and $ million related international equity securities. Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. Management does not believe any unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairment based our evaluation available evidence June , . Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , , the recorded basis and estimated fair value these investments was $ million. June , , the recorded basis and estimated fair value these investments was $ million. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. PAGE Part Item The maturities debt securities, including fixed-maturity securities, June , , were follows: ( millions) Cost basis Estimated fair value Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through ten years , , Due after ten years , , Total $ , $ , NOTE DERIVATIVES For derivative instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, did not have significant impact earnings for fiscal years , , . During fiscal year , $ million gains fair-value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash-flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and were included investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million gains fair-value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash-flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and were included investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million gains fair-value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash-flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and were included investment income and other. Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale underlying investment recognized. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income and other. estimate that $ million net derivative gains included OCI will reclassified into earnings within the next months. significant amounts gains losses were reclassified from OCI into earnings result forecasted transactions that failed occur for fiscal years , , and . Derivative fair values are based quoted market prices pricing models using current market data. The fair values all derivative positions were follows: ( millions) Short-term investments ( ) Other current assets Equity and other investments ( ) Other current liabilities Other long-term liabilities Total June , Cash-flow hedges $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ Fair-value hedges ( ) \x96 ( ) \x96 Other derivatives ( ) ( ) \x96 Total $ $ $ $ ( ) $ \x96 $ , June , Cash-flow hedges $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ Fair-value hedges ( ) \x96 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Other derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) \x96 ( ) Total $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) The amounts presented short-term investments and equity and other investments were classified investments our balance sheets and were included the amounts presented Note \x96 Investments. PAGE Part Item NOTE INVENTORIES ( millions) June , Raw materials $ $ Work process Finished goods Inventories $ $ , NOTE PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT ( millions) June , Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements , , Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment , , Property and equipment, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Property and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed principally the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets. The useful lives for buildings range from five years, leasehold improvements generally range from two ten years \x96 representing the applicable lease terms plus reasonably assured extensions, computer equipment and software range from two three years, and furniture and equipment range from one five years. Land not depreciated. During fiscal years , , and , depreciation expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ million, respectively. The majority depreciation expense all years related computer equipment. NOTE ACQUISITIONS August , , acquired all the outstanding shares aQuantive, Inc. (\x93aQuantive\x94) for $ billion, which was paid primarily cash. Headquartered Seattle, Washington, aQuantive digital marketing business that expect will play key role the future development our Online Services Business. also believe the acquisition will help build and support next-generation advertiser and publisher solutions environments such cross media planning, video- -demand, and Internet protocol television. aQuantive was consolidated into our results operations starting August , , the acquisition date. result the aQuantive acquisition, recorded $ billion goodwill our Online Services Business. the $ million acquired intangible assets, $ million was assigned -process research and development assets and was expensed. The remaining acquired intangible assets include $ million customer relationships with weighted average life six years, $ million technology-based intangible assets with weighted average life four years, and $ million other intangible assets with weighted average life five years. April , , acquired all the outstanding shares Fast Search & Transfer ASA (\x93FAST\x94) for $ billion, which was paid primarily cash. Headquartered Oslo, Norway, FAST enterprise search company that expect will broaden our enterprise search technology product offerings businesses and will enable innovation related areas such our portal and content management. FAST was consolidated into our results operations starting April , , the acquisition date. PAGE Part Item result the FAST acquisition, recorded $ million goodwill our Microsoft Business Division. the $ million acquired intangible assets, $ million was assigned -process research and development assets and was expensed. The remaining acquired intangible assets include $ million customer relationships with weighted average life seven years, $ million technology-based intangible assets with weighted average life five years, and $ million other intangible assets with weighted average life six years. The following table summarizes the estimated fair values the assets acquired and liabilities assumed the dates the aQuantive and FAST acquisitions: ( millions) aQuantive August , FAST April , Cash and cash equivalents $ $ Accounts receivable, net Other current assets Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets Goodwill , Deferred income taxes \x96 Other long-term assets Total assets acquired $ , $ , Accrued compensation Other current liabilities Deferred income taxes Other long-term liabilities Total liabilities assumed $ , $ Net assets acquired $ , $ , addition aQuantive and FAST, acquired other entities during fiscal year for total consideration $ billion which was paid primarily cash and included: \x95 Danger, Inc. (\x93Danger\x94), software- - -service company that provides mobile operators with integrated end- -end solution deliver mobile data and Internet services their subscribers. acquired Danger for approximately $ million cash; and \x95 other entities specializing areas such application security, desktop, and advertising solutions. result our acquisition Danger and the other entities, recorded $ billion goodwill. addition, $ million was assigned -process research and development assets and was expensed. All the entities have been consolidated into our results operations since their respective acquisition dates. The purchase price allocations for these acquisitions are preliminary and subject revision more detailed analyses are completed and additional information about fair value assets and liabilities becomes available. Any change the estimated fair value the net assets the acquired companies will change the amount the purchase price allocable goodwill. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects Danger and the other acquisitions, individually and aggregate, were not material. PAGE Part Item NOTE GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill for fiscal years and segment were follows: ( millions) Balance June , Acquisitions Other Balance June , Acquisitions Other Balance June , Client $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Server and Tools ( ) Online Services Business , , ( ) ( ) Microsoft Business Division , , ( ) , ( ) , Entertainment and Devices Division ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , test goodwill for impairment annually July the reporting unit level using fair value approach, accordance with the provisions SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . Our annual testing resulted impairments goodwill fiscal years and . event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value, goodwill will evaluated for impairment between annual tests. None the amount recorded goodwill during fiscal year expected deductible for tax purposes. The purchase price allocation for acquisitions preliminary for months after the acquisition date and subject revision more detailed analyses are completed and additional information about fair value assets and liabilities become available. Any change the fair value the net assets the acquired company will change the amount the purchase price allocable goodwill. Purchase price adjustments are included \x93other\x94 the above table. NOTE INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components finite-lived intangible assets were follows: ( millions) June , Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Contract-based $ , $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Technology-based , ( ) , ( ) Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ PAGE Part Item During fiscal year and , recorded additions intangible assets $ billion and $ million, respectively. estimate that have significant residual value related our intangible assets. The components finite-lived intangible assets acquired during fiscal years and were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Amount Weighted average life Amount Weighted average life Contract-based $ years $ years Technology-based years years Marketing-related years years Customer-related years years Total $ , $ Intangible asset additions included $ million technology-based intangible assets with weighted-average life four years, and $ million other intangible assets with weighted-average life six years, related the acquisitions aQuantive, FAST, Danger, and other entities acquired. See Note \x96 Acquisitions. Acquired intangibles generally are amortized straight-line basis over weighted average lives. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal year , $ million for fiscal year , and $ million for fiscal year . The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets June , : ( millions) Year Ended June , Amount $ and thereafter Total $ , NOTE INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Current taxes: . Federal $ , $ , $ , . State and Local International , Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item . and international components income before income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes were follows: Year Ended June , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Foreign earnings taxed lower rates ( )% ( )% ( )% Examination settlements ( )% \x96 ( )% European Commission fine % \x96 % Other reconciling items % % % Effective rate % % % general, other reconciling items consist interest, . state income taxes, domestic production deductions, and research credits. fiscal years and , there were individually significant other reconciling items. Other reconciling items fiscal year included the impact $ million reduction resulting from various changes tax positions taken prior periods, related primarily favorable developments IRS position and multiple foreign audit assessments. The components the deferred income tax assets and liabilities were follows: ( millions) June , Deferred income tax assets: Stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , Other expense items , , Unearned revenue Impaired investments Other revenue items Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: International earnings $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Unrealized gain investments ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Reported : Current deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred income tax assets , Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , PAGE Part Item Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. have not provided deferred . income taxes foreign withholding taxes temporary differences approximately $ billion resulting from earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the United States. The amount unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences approximately $ billion. Income taxes paid were $ billion fiscal year , $ billion fiscal year , and $ billion fiscal year . FIN July , , adopted the provisions FIN which had the following impact our financial statements: increased current assets $ million, long-term assets $ billion, long-term liabilities $ billion, and retained deficit $ million; and decreased income taxes payable $ million. June , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. July , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. Our policy include interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits income tax expense. Interest totaled $ million fiscal year . June , and July , , had accrued interest related uncertain tax positions $ million and $ million, respectively, net federal income tax benefits, our balance sheets. The aggregate changes the balance unrecognized tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year $ , Decreases related settlements ( , ) Increases for tax positions related the current year Increases for tax positions related prior years Decreases for tax positions related prior years ( ) Reductions due lapsed statute limitations ( ) Balance, end year $ , During fiscal year , reached settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (\x93IRS\x94) its - examination. result, reduced our unrecognized tax benefits $ billion and recognized tax provision reduction $ billion. are under audit the IRS for the tax years - . not believe reasonably possible that the total amount unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase decrease within the next months not believe the examination will concluded within the next months. result our settlement related the - examination, paid the IRS approximately $ billion during the first quarter fiscal year . are subject income tax many jurisdictions outside the United States, none which are individually material our financial position, cash flows, results operations. NOTE UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue comprised the following items: Volume licensing programs \x96 Represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. PAGE Part Item Undelivered elements \x96 Represents free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. This revenue deferral applicable for Windows and prior versions shipped retail packaged products, products licensed OEMs, and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs. The amount recorded unearned based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home and approximately % % the sales price for Windows Professional, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and one-half years for Windows operating systems. Other \x96 Represents payments for post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future, online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed, Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products, Xbox Live subscriptions, Mediaroom, and other offerings for which have been paid upfront and earn the revenue when provide the service software, otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The components unearned revenue were follows: ( millions) June , Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other , , Unearned revenue $ , $ , Unearned revenue segment was follows: ( millions) June , Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Microsoft Business Division , , Other segments Unearned revenue $ , $ , NOTE OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES ( millions) June , Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities $ , $ , Legal contingencies Product warranty Other Other long-term liabilities $ , $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES have committed $ billion for constructing new buildings June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million, fiscal years , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Amount $ and thereafter $ , provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. addition, also provide indemnification against credit risk several geographical locations our volume license resellers case the resellers fail collect from the end user. Due the nature the indemnification provided our resellers, cannot estimate the fair value, nor determine the total nominal amount, the indemnification. evaluate estimated losses for these indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . , Guarantor\x92 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees Indebtedness Others . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result these obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related these indemnifications our financial statements. Product Warranty July , announced the expansion our global Xbox warranty coverage three years from the date purchase for general hardware failure indicated three flashing red lights. The basic Xbox console warranty remains place with warranty period one year from the date purchase most geographies. The changes our aggregate product warranty liabilities, which are included other current liabilities and other long term-liabilities our balance sheets, were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year $ $ Accruals for warranties issued Adjustments pre-existing warranties Settlements warranty claims ( ) ( ) Balance, end year $ $ Accruals for warranties issued during fiscal year included charges incurred result the expansion our Xbox warranty coverage discussed above. PAGE Part Item NOTE CONTINGENCIES Government competition law matters. March , the European Commission issued competition law decision that, among other things, ordered license certain Windows server protocol technology our competitors. March , the European Commission issued statement objections claiming that the pricing terms proposed for licensing the technology required the March decision were \x93not reasonable.\x94 Following additional steps took address these concerns, the Commission announced October , that were compliance with the March decision and that further penalty should accrue after that date. February , , the Commission issued fine $ billion ( \x80 million) relating the period prior October , . January , the Commission announced that was opening two new competition law investigations. These investigations relate primarily interoperability with respect our Microsoft Office family products and the inclusion various capabilities our Windows operating system software, including Web browsing software. These investigations were precipitated complaints filed with the Commission trade association Microsoft\x92 competitors and firm that offers Web browsing software. May , filed application with the European Court First Instance annul the February fine. paid the $ billion ( \x80 million) fine June . are subject Consent Decree and Final Judgment that resolved lawsuits brought the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia two separate actions. The Consent Decree imposed various constraints our Windows operating system businesses. Portions the Consent Decree were scheduled expire January , ; voluntarily agreed extend other elements the Consent Decree November . October , some states filed motion with the . District Court for the District Columbia seeking have most the remaining provisions the Final Judgment the action which they are party extended for five years. The . Department Justice and other states advised the Court that they would not seek any extension the Final Judgments which they are party. January , the court issued decision granting the states\x92 motion extend these additional provisions the consent decree until November . other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state attorneys general have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. Antitrust, unfair competition, and overcharge class actions. large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits have been filed against various state, federal, and Canadian courts behalf various classes direct and indirect purchasers our operating system and certain other software products. obtained dismissals damages claims indirect purchasers under federal law and states. Courts refused certify classes two additional states. have reached agreements settle all claims that have been made date states and the District Columbia. Under the settlements, generally class members can obtain vouchers that entitle them reimbursed for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value vouchers that may issue varies state. will make available certain schools percentage those vouchers that are not issued claimed (one-half two-thirds depending the state). The total value vouchers ultimately issue will depend the number class members who make claims and are issued vouchers. The maximum value vouchers issued approximately $ billion. The actual costs these settlements will less than that maximum amount, depending the number class members and schools that are issued and redeem vouchers. The settlements all states have received final court approval. Cases Arizona, Mississippi and Canada have not been settled. estimate the total cost resolve all these cases will range between $ billion and $ billion. The actual cost depends factors such the quantity and mix products for which claims will made, the number eligible class members who ultimately use the vouchers, the nature hardware and software that acquired using the vouchers, and the cost administering the claims. June , , have recorded liability related these claims approximately $ million, which reflects our estimated exposure $ billion less payments made date approximately $ million, mostly for administrative expenses, vouchers, and legal fees. Other antitrust litigation and claims. November , Novell, Inc. filed complaint . District Court Utah, now transferred with other cases Maryland, asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against related Novell\x92 ownership WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June and March . June , the trial court granted our motion dismiss four six claims the complaint. Both parties appealed, and October , the court appeals affirmed the decision the trial court, remanding the case that court for further proceedings. PAGE Part Item Patent and intellectual property claims. are vigorously defending more than patent infringement cases. Microsoft and Alcatel-Lucent are parties number legal proceedings relating certain patents each the companies. Some these actions began before the merger Alcatel and Lucent . For simplicity, refer the post-merger entity Alcatel-Lucent throughout this discussion. \x95 , filed action . District Court California seeking declaratory judgment that not infringe certain Alcatel-Lucent patents. Alcatel-Lucent has asserted claims under these patents against computer manufacturers that sell computers with our operating system and application software pre-installed. February , the jury returned verdict Alcatel-Lucent\x92 favor the first series patent trials, and awarded $ billion damages. August , our motions for judgment matter law, the trial court overturned the jury verdict and entered orders dismissing plaintiff\x92 claims multiple grounds. Alcatel-Lucent appealed. The trial court previously dismissed Alcatel-Lucent\x92 claims with respect second group patents and two patents third grouping. April , jury returned verdict Alcatel-Lucent\x92 favor trial consolidated group video and user interface patents. The jury concluded that Microsoft had infringed two patents and awarded $ million damages. June , , the trial judge increased the amount damages $ million, which includes the $ million damages and $ million interest. Microsoft will appeal the verdict. \x95 March , Alcatel-Lucent filed lawsuit against . District Court California, claiming Windows Vista, Windows Media Player, and the Xbox infringe one its patents. response, asserted counterclaims that Alcatel-Lucent infringes Microsoft patents its sale various products. The case went trial April Alcatel-Lucent\x92 video patent and four Microsoft counterclaim patents. The jury returned verdict Microsoft\x92 favor June , , finding infringement Alcatel-Lucent\x92 patent. The jury also found infringement Microsoft\x92 counterclaim patents. \x95 November , Alcatel-Lucent filed two patent infringement cases against . District Court Texas, asserting Mediaroom and various networking functionalities violate seven its patents. April , asserted infringement counterclaims based four our patents relating functionality similar that accused Alcatel-Lucent. The trial all the patents set for January . \x95 February , filed complaint against Alcatel-Lucent with the International Trade Commission claiming Alcatel-Lucent infringing four Microsoft patents related our unified communications technology and seeking prevent the import into the . certain Alcatel-Lucent unified communications products. Trial this matter took place October . The administrative law judge ruled that Alcatel-Lucent infringed one the four asserted patents. The Commission reversed that decision May . are appealing that ruling the . Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit. \x95 April , the Multimedia Patent Trust filed complaint against Microsoft, Dell, and Gateway San Diego, California accusing the parties infringing three video-related patents that originally belonged Alcatel-Lucent. Alcatel-Lucent created the Multimedia Patent Trust prior the companies\x92 merger and transferred the patents issue the trust. June , the plaintiff dismissed one the patent claims. The actual costs resolve these cases will depend upon many factors such the outcome post-trial motions, any appeals, and the results the remaining trials. Adverse outcomes some all the matters described this section may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against that would adversely affect distribution our operating system application products. may enter into material settlements because these risks. Other. are also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against , individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position, our results operations, our cash flows, these matters are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. June , , had accrued aggregate liabilities approximately $ million other current liabilities and approximately $ million other long-term liabilities for all the contingent matters described this note. While intend vigorously defend these matters, there exists the possibility adverse outcomes that PAGE Part Item estimate could $ billion aggregate beyond recorded amounts. Were unfavorable final outcomes occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position, results operations, and cash flows for the period which the effects become reasonably estimable. NOTE STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , July , , announced the completion the repurchase program initially approved our Board Directors July , buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. July , , also announced that our Board Directors authorized two new share repurchase programs: $ billion tender offer, which was completed August , ; and authorization for additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program with expiration June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares common stock, % our common shares outstanding, for approximately $ billion price per share $ . August , , announced that the authorization for the $ billion ongoing share repurchase program had been increased approximately $ billion. result, were authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . June , , approximately $ billion remained the $ billion approved repurchase amount. Under these repurchase plans, have made the following share repurchases: ( millions) Year Ended June , ( ) ( ) ( ) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount First quarter $ , $ , $ , Second quarter , , , Third quarter , , , Fourth quarter , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) All amounts repurchased fiscal year were repurchased under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors July , . ( ) Approximately million shares common stock for approximately $ billion were repurchased under our tender offer the first quarter fiscal year . All other amounts repurchased were repurchased under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors July , . ( ) All amounts repurchased fiscal year were repurchased under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors July , . PAGE Part Item fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount ( millions) Payment Date September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , ( ) September , ( ) The dividend declared June , will paid after the filing date this report Form - and was included other current liabilities June , . fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount ( millions) Payment Date September , $ November , $ December , December , $ February , $ March , March , $ May , $ June , June , $ August , $ ( ) September , ( ) The dividend declared June , was included other current liabilities June , . NOTE OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The activity other comprehensive income and related income tax effects were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Net unrealized gains derivative instruments: Unrealized gains, net tax effect $ , $ , and $ $ $ $ Reclassification adjustment for gains included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains derivative instruments Net unrealized gains (losses) investments: Unrealized gains (losses), net tax effect $( ) , $ , and $( ) ( ) ( ) Reclassification adjustment for gains included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) investments ( ) ( ) Translation adjustments and other Other comprehensive income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) The components accumulated other comprehensive income were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Net unrealized gains derivative instruments $ $ $ Net unrealized gains investments , , Translation adjustments and other Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS Stock-based compensation and related income tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Total stock-based compensation $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefits related stock-based compensation $ $ $ Employee Stock Purchase Plan. have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan recognized accordance with SFAS . ( ). Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the last day each three-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. Employees purchased the following shares: (Shares millions) Shares purchased Average price per share $ $ $ June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. Savings Plan. have savings plan the United States that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, and number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. Stock Plans. have stock plans for directors and for officers, employees, consultants, and advisors. June , , aggregate million shares were authorized for future grant under our stock plans, which cover stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. Awards that expire are canceled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. issue new shares satisfy stock option exercises. Stock Awards and Shared Performance Stock Awards. Stock awards (\x93SAs\x94) are grants that entitle the holder shares common stock the award vests. Our SAs generally vest over five-year period. Shared performance stock awards (\x93SPSAs\x94) are form which the number shares ultimately received depends our business performance against specified performance targets. The performance period for SPSAs issued fiscal years , , and was July , through June , (January , through June , for certain executive officers). Following the end the performance period, the Compensation Committee the Board Directors determined that the number shares SAs issued was million, based the actual performance against metrics established for the performance period. One-third the awards vested each the fiscal years and . additional one-third the awards will vest fiscal year . Because the SPSAs covered three-year period, SPSAs issued fiscal year were given only newly hired and promoted employees eligible receive SPSAs. The Company granted SPSAs for fiscal years and with performance periods July , through June , and July , through June , , respectively. the end the fiscal year performance period, the number shares stock subject the award determined multiplying the target award percentage ranging from % %. The percentage based performance metrics for the performance period, determined the Compensation Committee the Board Directors its sole discretion. additional number shares, approximately % the total target SPSAs, are available additional awards participants based individual performance. One-quarter the shares stock subject each award vest following the end the PAGE Part Item performance period, and additional one-quarter the shares vest over each the following three years. Following the end the fiscal year performance period, the Compensation Committee the Board Directors determined that the number shares SAs issued was million, based the actual performance against metrics established for the performance period. The number shares SAs issued for the fiscal year performance period will determined the first quarter fiscal year . measure the fair value SAs and SPSAs based upon the market price the underlying common stock the date grant, reduced the present value estimated future dividends. SAs and SPSAs are amortized over their applicable vesting period (generally three five years) using the straight-line method. The fair value each award grant estimated the date grant using the following assumptions: ( millions) Dividend per share (quarterly amounts) $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Interest rates range % - % % - % % - % During fiscal year , the following activity occurred under our existing plans: Shares ( millions) Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Year Ended June , Stock awards: Nonvested balance, beginning year $ Granted Vested ( ) Forfeited ( ) Nonvested balance, end year $ Shared performance stock awards: Nonvested balance, beginning year $ Granted Vested ( ) Forfeited ( ) Nonvested balance, end year $ June , , there was $ billion and $ million total unrecognized compensation costs related SAs and SPSAs, respectively. These costs are expected recognized over weighted average period years and years, respectively. SPSAs granted fiscal year include adjustments for estimated performance against performance targets. During fiscal year and , the following activity occurred under our plans: ( millions, except fair values) Stock awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Shared performance stock awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Stock Options. fiscal year , began granting employees SAs rather than stock options part our equity compensation plans. Since then, stock options issued employees have been issued primarily conjunction with business acquisitions. Nonqualified stock options were granted our directors under our non-employee director PAGE Part Item stock plan. Nonqualified and incentive stock options were granted certain officers and employees under our employee stock plans. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted after vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Approximately ten million, two million, and one million stock options were granted conjunction with business acquisitions during fiscal years , , and , respectively. Employee stock options outstanding were follows: Shares ( millions) Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term (years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( millions) Balance, June , $ Granted Exercised ( ) Canceled ( ) Forfeited ( ) Balance, June , $ $ , Exercisable, June , $ $ Options outstanding June , include approximately million options that were granted conjunction with business acquisitions. While these options are included the options outstanding balance, they are excluded from the weighted average exercise price $ presented. These options have exercise price range $ $ and weighted average exercise price $ . During fiscal years , , and the following activity occurred under our plans: ( millions) Total intrinsic value stock options exercised $ , $ $ Total fair value stock awards vested $ $ $ Total fair value shared performance stock awards vested $ $ $ \x96 Cash received and income tax benefits from stock option exercises were $ billion and $ million, respectively, for fiscal year . NOTE SEGMENT INFORMATION Segment revenue and operating income (loss) was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Revenue: Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Business , , , Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division , , , Unallocated and other Consolidated $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item ( millions) Year Ended June , Operating Income (Loss): Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Business ( , ) ( ) Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division ( , ) ( , ) Reconciling amounts ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. This standard requires segmentation based our internal organization and reporting revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. Our financial reporting systems present various data for management operate the business, including internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. The segments are designed allocate resources internally and provide framework determine management responsibility. Amounts for prior periods have been recast conform the current management view. Operating segments are defined components enterprise about which separate financial information available that evaluated regularly the chief operating decision maker, decision making group, deciding how allocate resources and assessing performance. Our chief operating decision maker our Chief Executive Officer. Our five segments are Client; Server and Tools; Online Services Business; Microsoft Business Division; and Entertainment and Devices Division. The types products and services provided each segment are summarized below: Client \x96 Windows Vista, including Home, Home Premium, Ultimate, Business, Enterprise and Starter Edition; Windows Professional and Home; Media Center Edition; Tablet Edition; and other standard Windows operating systems. Server and Tools \x96 Windows Server operating system; Microsoft SQL Server; Microsoft Enterprise Services; product support services; Visual Studio; System Center products; Forefront security products; Biz Talk Server; MSDN; and other products and services. Online Services Business \x96 Live Search; MSN; MapPoint; MSN Internet Access; MSN Premium Web Services (consisting MSN Internet Software Subscription, MSN Hotmail Plus, and MSN Software Services); Windows Live; MSN Mobile Services; AvenueA Razorfish media agency services; Atlas online tools for advertisers; and the Drive network for publishers. Microsoft Business Division \x96 Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Microsoft Visio; Microsoft Office SharePoint Server; Microsoft PerformancePoint; Microsoft Office Live; FAST ESP; Microsoft Exchange Server; Microsoft Exchange Hosted Services; Microsoft Office Live Meeting; Microsoft Office Communication Server; Microsoft Office Communicator; Microsoft Tellme Service, Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics CRM; Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics NAV; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics Retail Management System; Microsoft Partner Program; and Microsoft Office Accounting. Entertainment and Devices Division \x96 Xbox console and games; Xbox Live; Zune; Mediaroom; numerous consumer software and hardware products (such mice and keyboards); Windows Mobile software and services platform; Windows Embedded device operating system; Windows Automotive; and Surface computing platform. Because our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments, and therefore these segments are not designed measure operating income loss directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and incent shared efforts. Management will continually PAGE Part Item evaluate the alignment product development organizations, sales organizations, and inter-segment commissions for segment reporting purposes, which may result changes segment allocations future periods. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Reconciling amounts include adjustments conform with . GAAP and corporate-level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, and accelerated amortization for depreciation, stock awards, and performance-based stock awards. addition, certain revenue and expenses are excluded from segments included corporate-level activity including certain legal settlements and accruals for legal contingencies. Significant reconciling items were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Summary reconciling amounts: Corporate-level activity ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense ( ) Revenue reconciling amounts ( ) Other ( ) Total $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Corporate-level activity excludes stock-based compensation expense and revenue reconciling amounts presented separately those line items. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year fiscal year revenue. Sales Dell and its subsidiaries accounted for approximately % fiscal year revenue. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels and cover broad array products including Windows operating systems, Microsoft Office, and server products. Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which our customers are located, was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes shipments customers the United States and licensing certain OEMs and multinational organizations. Long-lived assets, classified the geographic location the controlling statutory company which that company operates, were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , United States $ , $ , Other countries , Total $ , $ , PAGE Part Item QUARTERLY INFORMATION ( millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Total Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , ( ) , ( ) , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , ( ) $ , ( ) $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , ( ) , Net income , , , ( ) , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Includes charges $ million (pre-tax) related various legal matters. ( ) Includes charge $ billion ( \x80 million) related the fine imposed the European Commission February . ( ) Reflects $ billion revenue deferred the third quarter fiscal year for the Express Upgrade Windows Vista and Microsoft Office Technology guarantee programs and pre-shipments Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system. ( ) Includes $ billion revenue discussed above. ( ) Includes charges $ million (pre-tax) related various legal matters. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) charge related the Xbox warranty policy, inventory write-downs, and product returns. ( ) Includes charge $ million (pre-tax) related the settlement with RealNetworks, Inc. ( ) Includes charges $ million (pre-tax) related various legal matters. ( ) Includes charge $ million ( \x80 million) result the fine imposed the European Commission July . PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. discussed Note the financial statements, July , the Company adopted the provisions Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation . , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue . - , Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits Pursuant FASB Statement . . have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated July , expressed unqualified opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PAGE Part Item , ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures required Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. REPORT MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control over financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability our financial reporting for external purposes accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary for preparation our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures company assets are made accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition company assets that could have material effect our financial statements would prevented detected timely basis. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting not intended provide absolute assurance that misstatement our financial statements would prevented detected. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Based this evaluation, management concluded that the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was effective June , . There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited our internal control over financial reporting June , ; their report included Item . PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the internal control over financial reporting Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. The Company\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting, included the accompanying Report Management Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed , under the supervision , the company\x92 principal executive and principal financial officers, persons performing similar functions, and effected the company\x92 board directors, management, and other personnel provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because the inherent limitations internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility collusion improper management override controls, material misstatements due error fraud may not prevented detected timely basis. Also, projections any evaluation the effectiveness the internal control over financial reporting future periods are subject the risk that the controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, the Company maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and for the year ended June , the Company and our report dated July , expressed unqualified opinion those financial statements and included explanatory paragraph regarding the Company\x92 adoption Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation . , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue . - , Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits Pursuant FASB Statement . . / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PAGE Part , III Item , , , , , ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE list our executive officers and biographical information appears Part , Item this report. Information about our directors may found under the caption \x93Nominees\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Information about our Audit Committee may found under the caption \x93Board Committees\x94 the Proxy Statement. That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our Website www microsoft com msft corporate default mspx. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature the amendment waiver that Website report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Director Compensation,\x94 \x93Named Executive Officer Compensation,\x94 \x93Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,\x94 and \x93Compensation Committee Report\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 and \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information set forth the Proxy Statement under the captions \x93Director Independence\x94 and \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the headings \x93Fees Billed Deloitte & Touche\x94 and \x93Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services Independent Auditor\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PAGE Part Item PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Annual Report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Exhibit Listing Filed herewith Incorporated reference Exhibit number Exhibit description Form Period ending Exhibit Filing date Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation - Bylaws Microsoft Corporation - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors - * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the January , June , performance period - PAGE Part Item Filed herewith Incorporated reference Exhibit number Exhibit description Form Period ending Exhibit Filing date * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the July , June , performance period - * Form Stock Option Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) - Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the fiscal year performance period - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the fiscal year performance period - Subsidiaries Registrant Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement PAGE ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}