{'item 1. ': 'Business General -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" "Microsoft") was founded partnership and incorporated . Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports wide range software products for multitude computing devices. Microsoft( ) software includes scalable operating systems for servers, personal computers (PCs), and intelligent devices; server applications for client server environments; knowledge worker productivity applications; and software development tools. The Company\' online efforts include the MSN( ) network Internet products and services and alliances with companies involved with broadband access and various forms digital interactivity. Microsoft also licenses consumer software programs; sells hardware devices; provides consulting services; trains and certifies system integrators and developers; and researches and develops advanced technologies for future software products. Microsoft\' business strategy emphasizes the development broad line software products for information technology ( ) professionals, knowledge workers, developers, and consumers, marketed through multiple channels distribution. The Company structured around the following core groups: the Business Groups; the Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Services Group; Microsoft Research; and the Operations Group. The Company\' product segments, which are based the Business Groups, are Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services, Consumer Software, Services, and Devices, Consumer Commerce Investments, and Other. The Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services segment includes the Platforms Group and the Productivity and Business Services Group. The Platforms Group has responsibility for continuing evolve the Windows platform. addition, the division includes the NET Enterprise Server Group, the Developer Tools Division, and the Windows Digital Media Division. The Productivity and Business Services Group drives Microsoft\' broad vision for productivity and business process applications and services. This group includes the Office Division, the Emerging Technologies Group, the Business Tools Division, and the Business Applications Group, which includes bCentral( ) and Microsoft Great Plains( ). The Consumer Software, Services, and Devices segment contains the MSN Business Group; the Personal Services Business Group; and the Home and Retail Division. MSN Business Group runs the network programming, business development, and worldwide sales and marketing for MSN and Microsoft\' other services efforts, including MSN eShop, the MSNBC venture, Slate( ), and MSNTV. The Personal Services Group (PSG) focuses making easier for consumers and businesses connect online and deliver software service variety devices. PSG encompasses Microsoft\' Personal NET initiative, the Services Platform Division, the Mobility Group, the MSN Internet Access, Consumer Devices Group, and the User Interface Platform Division. The Home and Retail Division develops and markets learning and entertainment software and the future Xbox game console. The Consumer Commerce Investment segment includes Expedia, Inc., the HomeAdvisor( ) online real estate service, and the MSN CarPoint( ) online automotive service. For financial reporting, revenue from Microsoft Press( ) and Hardware included the Other segment. The Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Services Group integrates the activities Microsoft\' sales and service partners with the needs Microsoft customers around the world. addition, the group includes Microsoft Product Support Services, the Network Solutions Group, the Enterprise Partner Group, the Central Marketing Organization, and all three Microsoft\' major business-sales regions worldwide. Microsoft Research works devising innovative solutions computer science problems, such making computers easier use, designing software for the next generation hardware, improving the software design process, and investigating the mathematical underpinnings computer science. The Operations Group responsible for managing business operations and overall business planning. This includes corporate functions such finance, administration, human resources, and information technology. Products Microsoft has four product segments: Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services; Consumer Software, Services, and Devices; Consumer Commerce Investments; and Other. See Notes Financial Statements for financial information regarding segment reporting. Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services includes Desktop Applications; Desktop Platforms; and Enterprise Software and Services. For segment reporting purposes, Desktop Applications includes revenue from Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio( ), Microsoft Great Plains, bCentral; and client access licenses for Windows ( ) Server and Windows Server, Exchange, and BackOffice( ). Desktop Platforms includes revenue from Windows Professional, Windows Workstation, Windows Millennium Edition, Windows , and other desktop operating systems. Enterprise Software and Services includes Enterprise Platforms, Server Applications, Developer Tools and Services, and Enterprise Services. Desktop Applications -------------------- Microsoft Office. Microsoft Office suite software programs featuring seamless integration the most commonly used desktop applications. Microsoft Office based upon document-centric concept, with common commands and extensive use cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office available several versions, with certain combinations products, and available for the Windows and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Office helps users complete common business tasks, including word processing, electronic mail ( - mail), presentations, and data management, with features like smart tags, task panes, integrated -mail, document recovery, and send for review. Products offered the various versions include the word processor Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, Microsoft Outlook( ) personal information management and communication client, Microsoft PowerPoint( ) presentation graphics program, Microsoft Access database management application, and others. Microsoft Word word-processing program designed create documents such reports, letters, business plans, and more. Microsoft Excel creates data-rich spreadsheets for universal viewing the Internet and for collaboration, allows users analyze data with charts, and incorporates Microsoft PivotTable( ) views and graphs. Microsoft Outlook personal information management and communication client provides single, integrated solution for organizing and managing digital communication tools such -mail and instant messaging, along with day- -day information, including calendars, contacts, task lists, and notes. Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program complete set tools for creating professional presentations. Microsoft Access database management application allows for easy access and retrieval information and includes pre-packaged solutions create databases quickly. Microsoft FrontPage( ) Web site creation and management tool for Web sites the Internet intranets. Microsoft Publisher business desktop publishing program for creating professional-looking marketing and business materials. Other Desktop Application Products. The Company also offers other stand-alone desktop application products. Microsoft Project project management program for scheduling, organizing, and analyzing tasks, deadlines, and resources. Microsoft Visio diagramming program that helps people visualize and communicate ideas, information, and systems. Most the applications included the various software program suites are also licensed separately. Microsoft Great Plains. Microsoft Great Plains offers range integrated business and accounting products, including Dynamics, Solomon, and eEnterprise, which deliver broad and deep functionality. Dynamics provides Internet-ready accounting and business management capabilities for small- mid-sized companies. Solomon offers full range -business and accounting applications for small- mid-sized companies. eEnterprise supports mid-sized larger companies providing collaborative environment for information management and sharing. bCentral. Microsoft\' small businesses portal, bCentral, allows companies leverage the Internet drive their business forward. Microsoft bCentral Site Manager Web site management and hosting service which empowers small businesses easily create and manage their own Web sites, while allowing for higher-end editing Microsoft FrontPage. Microsoft bCentral LinkExchange( ) provides services small businesses and Web site owners increase their online traffic and sales with free advertising banner ads their site exchange for placing ads other network sites. Client Access Licenses. client access license gives client computer the legal right access computer running Microsoft server product and the services supported the server. Desktop Platforms ----------------- Windows . Windows the next major version the Windows operating system and scheduled for widespread availability October . Windows extends the personal computing experience uniting PCs, devices, and services, and brings the solid foundation Windows home users, enhancing reliability, security, and performance. Windows Home Edition designed for individuals families home and includes experiences for digital media, home networking, and communications. Windows Professional for businesses all sizes and for people who demand the most out their computing experience. Windows Professional adds remote access, security, performance, manageability, and multilingual features help users improve productivity and connectivity. Windows Professional. The successor Windows Workstation, Windows Professional operating system combines features create mainstream operating system for desktop and notebook computing all organizations. Windows Professional contains the enhanced business features Windows such Plug and Play, easy- -use user interface, and power management and integrates the strengths Windows Workstation including standards-based security, manageability, and reliability. Windows Workstation. fully integrated, multitasking -bit operating system, Windows Workstation provides security, robustness, and portability. Windows Workstation combines the Windows operating system interface and usability features with the reliability and security Windows for the business environment. Windows Millennium Edition. Windows Millennium Edition ( ) operating system designed specifically for home users manage digital photos and music, work with video, create home network, and communicate with other consumers. Windows . The successor Windows , Windows personal computer operating system that provides Web-oriented user interface and better system performance along with easier system diagnostics and maintenance. Windows supports graphics, sound, and multimedia technologies and provides the ability easily add and remove peripheral devices and support for Universal Serial Bus (USB). Enterprise Software and Services -------------------------------- Windows Server, Advanced Server, and Datacenter Server. Windows Server family builds the Windows technology, integrating standards-based directory, Web, application, communications, file and print services with high reliability, efficient management, and support for networking hardware provide the foundation for integrating with the Internet. Windows Server multipurpose network operating system for businesses all sizes. Windows Advanced Server operating system ideal for -commerce and line- - business applications and provides enhanced performance and scalability through symmetric multiprocessing (SMP) and extended memory support. Windows Datacenter Server operating system built for large-scale line- -business and enterprise backend usage and supports server consolidation and enhanced scalability. Windows Server. Windows Server operating system foundation for both server applications and file and print sharing, with network management features, administration tools, security, and high availability. Windows Server provides scalable platform for business critical applications and databases, connectivity, system management, and -mail servers. The operating system integrates Web services such Microsoft Internet Information Server, service used manage intranet and Internet functionality, and Microsoft FrontPage Web site creation and management tool. Windows Server, Terminal Server Edition, extension the Windows Server, offers the application support the Windows operating system platform with the centrally managed environment the mainframe with terminal. Windows Server Enterprise Edition provides the means for building and deploying large-scale distributed applications for large and mission-critical servers featuring comprehensive clustering for scalability and availability. Microsoft NET Enterprise Servers. Microsoft NET Enterprise Servers include Microsoft SQL Server( ), Exchange Server, Application Center, BizTalk( ) Server, Commerce Server, Content Management Server, Host Integration Server, Internet Security and Acceleration Server, Mobile Information Server, and SharePoint( ) Portal Server. SQL Server fully Web-enabled database and data analysis product, providing core support for Extensible Markup Language (XML) and the ability query across the Internet and beyond the firewall. Exchange Server messaging and collaboration server which provides -mail, group scheduling, task management, and document routing capabilities. Application Center Microsoft\' deployment and management tool for high- availability Web applications built the Microsoft Windows operating system. BizTalk Server enables companies rapidly build and deploy integrated business processes within their organizations and with partners. Commerce Server provides comprehensive set features for building scalable, user- centric, business- -consumer, and business- -business -commerce sites. Content Management Server the enterprise Web content management system that enables companies quickly and efficiently build, deploy, and maintain highly dynamic Internet, intranet, and extranet Web sites. Host Integration Server extends Microsoft Windows other systems providing application, data, and network integration. Internet Security and Acceleration Server provides secure, fast, and manageable Internet connectivity. integrates extensible, multilayer enterprise firewall and scalable high-performance Web cache. Mobile Information Server mobile-enables the enterprise, extending the reach Microsoft NET Enterprise applications, enterprise data, and intranet content the mobile user. SharePoint Portal Server extends the capabilities Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office offering knowledge workers powerful new way easily organize, find, and share information. combines the ability easily create corporate Web portals with document management, content searching, and team collaboration features. Other Servers. Designed for the branch office, department, and medium-sized business, BackOffice Server provides wide range infrastructure and application services including directory, networking, Web application, database, messaging and collaboration, Internet proxy and firewall, host integration, and Windows desktop management. Proxy Server extensible firewall and Web cache server that provides Internet security while improving network response time and efficiency. Site Server the powerful intranet server, optimized for Microsoft Windows Server with Internet Information Server, for publishing and finding information easier and faster. Site Server Commerce comprehensive Internet commerce server that organizations can use build and monitor dynamic and cost-effective business sites that take full advantage the Web. Small Business Server the flexible network solution designed help small businesses with computers. SNA Server provides connectivity host data and applications. Systems Management Server helps centrally manage the distributed environment with integrated features, including hardware inventory, software inventory and metering, software distribution and installation, and remote troubleshooting tools. Developer Tools and Services. Software development tools and computer languages allow software developers write programs particular computer language and translate programs into binary machine-readable set commands that activate and instruct various hardware devices. The Company develops and markets number software development environments and language compilers. Microsoft Visual ++( ) the Company\' development system for Windows-based application development. The Microsoft Visual Basic( ) development system provides easy access wide variety data sources integrating the Microsoft Access database engine and the ability take advantage investments commercial applications. The Microsoft Visual InterDev( ) development system includes integrated, team-based development tools for building Web-based applications based HTML, Script, and components written any language. Microsoft Visual ++ development system for Java contains high productivity Integrated Development Environment and collection integrated components create, test, tune, and deploy Java code multiple platforms. Microsoft Visual Studio( ) development system for Windows-based development suite developer tools enabling developers build components and applications using Visual Basic, Visual ++, Microsoft Visual FoxPro( ) database development system, Visual InterDev, and Visual ++. Developers can subscribe the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN( )) information service and receive periodic updates via -ROMs, magazines, and several online information services. addition, Microsoft receives certification fees through the Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) program, program that provides credentials for those who have demonstrated -depth knowledge least one Microsoft product. Enterprise Services. Microsoft Enterprise Services assist organizations with every stage technology planning, building, deployment, and support. Specializing real-life solutions for the enterprise, Microsoft offers full range consulting services for advance technology requirements, including custom solutions services, enterprise application planning, architecture and design services, and proof- -concept services. The Company provides product support services aligned the customer segments, partner segments, and communities. Support offerings include the Alliance program, tailored for large enterprises running mission-critical applications Microsoft platforms; the Premier program for enterprises; the Authorized Premier Support for all types businesses who work jointly with Microsoft and Microsoft Gold Certified Partners; the Professional program for professionals, developers, and OEMs; and the Personal program for home users, which provides free online self-help resources and paid assisted phone support. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Consumer Software, Services, and Devices includes MSN Internet access, MSN network services, and online games, Xbox, learning and productivity software, mobility and embedded systems. MSN Internet Access. MSN Internet access Web-based online service. MSN provides easy and inexpensive access for users wide range graphically rich online content. MSN Internet access includes MSN Explorer, the Internet software from Microsoft that makes easier get more from the Web. MSN Internet access subscribers can access their account from multiple sources, including computer, television, Internet appliances, and Personal Data Assistants. MSN Network Services. MSN network service provides services the Internet, encompassing MSN properties such Homepage and Search, well other services. MSN Hotmail( ) the world\' leading free Web-based -mail service. MSN Messenger Service free Internet messaging service that enables users see when others are online and exchange instant messages with them. CNBC MSN Money, located exclusively MSN, complete online personal financial service that combines the award-winning finance tools and content from Microsoft with exclusive investment news and analysis from CNBC. MSN Music provides consumers with one place online find old favorites, well discover new music, and delivers high quality listening experience. MSN eShop one- stop online shopping resource. and Online Games. The Company offers line entertainment products from classic software games online games, simulations, sport products, and strategy games. Microsoft Flight Simulator popular aircraft flight simulation product. Other games include Combat Flight Simulator, Age Empires( ), MechWarrior( ), Microsoft Links( ), and other sports and action titles. Zone com gaming community the Internet allowing multiplayer gaming competitions Microsoft\' popular -ROM games and classic card, board, and puzzle games. Xbox. Microsoft Xbox( ), scheduled for North America release November , Microsoft\' future-generation video game console system that delivers high quality graphics and audio gameplay experiences and will ultimately enable new online gaming scenarios. Learning and Productivity Software. Learning titles include Microsoft Encarta( ) multimedia encyclopedia and Microsoft Bookshelf( ) -ROM reference library. The Encarta family products includes multimedia encyclopedia database with interactive information, interactive world atlas with three- dimensional maps, world English dictionary, and online version with monthly updates. Microsoft Bookshelf multimedia reference library that gives users fast, easy access reference resources. Titles for children include Personal Tutor, comprehensive, grade-based learning suite with TutorAssist learning technology that identifies child\' specific learning needs and offers instruction, and series products based the popular children\' book and television series, Scholastic\' The Magic School Bus( ). Microsoft\' productivity offerings include Microsoft Works, integrated software program that contains basic word processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that allows the easy exchange information from one tool another. Microsoft Money offers leading tools and resources conduct wide range financial activities. The Works Suite provides comprehensive collection software, including Microsoft Works, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Money, Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia, Microsoft Picture !( ) Publishing, and Microsoft Streets & Trips. Mobility and Embedded Systems. Microsoft develops number software platforms for mobile computing form factors. Products such Pocket , Microsoft Mobile Explorer, and Microsoft Smartphone platform (currently codenamed Stinger) are designed enable variety mobile scenarios. Microsoft\' embedded offerings include two embedded operating systems, Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Windows Embedded, well device specific solutions. Microsoft Windows , robust real-time embedded operating system, targeted small footprint, mobile -bit devices. Microsoft Windows Embedded, based the desktop and server versions Microsoft\' operating systems, targeted higher-end embedded products and devices. Both embedded operating systems offer integrated tool sets enable embedded system developers quickly create sophisticated embedded device and application solutions. Microsoft Mobile Explorer enables secure mobile access corporate personal -mail, corporate networks, and the Internet when connected wireless network. Microsoft Mobile Information Server scalable and reliable mobile applications server that provides enterprise customers and mobile operators with rich platform for extending NET Enterprise application and securely delivering real-time, wireless data mobile devices. Consumer Commerce Investments -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Consumer Commerce Investments include Expedia, Inc., the HomeAdvisor online real estate service, and the CarPoint online automotive service. Expedia, Inc. Expedia, Inc. operates Expedia com, leading online travel service the United States with localized versions Canada, Germany, and the United Kingdom. Expedia com provides air, car, and hotel booking, vacation package and cruise offerings, destination information, and mapping. July , , USA Networks, Inc. (USA) announced agreement acquire controlling interest Expedia through the purchase million shares, approximately % the current outstanding shares. holders more than million Expedia shares elect sell their shares USA, there will pro rata reduction among all electing shareholders. Microsoft has agreed transfer all its million shares and warrants, subject pro-ration. expected that the transaction will close December , . HomeAdvisor online real estate service. The HomeAdvisor online real estate service complete guide the home-buying process and provides comprehensive tools for finding homes and loans the Internet. HomeAdvisor provides users with the information and knowledge needed take control the home-buying process. This includes customized search features, worksheets and calculators, and editorial content and home-buying advice. CarPoint online automotive service. The CarPoint online automotive service the leading online automotive marketplace, visited more than million consumers each month. With details more than , car models and , used vehicles, users can research and compare cars virtually every make and model, identify local dealers, and receive instructions for post-purchase service and maintenance. Other -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Hardware. The Company develops and markets several input devices including the Microsoft IntelliMouse( ) family hand-held pointing devices that facilitate using the . The Company also markets several types keyboards including the Microsoft Natural( ) Keyboard, ergonomically designed keyboard. Microsoft sells various Microsoft SideWinder( ) game controllers and force feedback joysticks with realistic performance technology use with games. Microsoft Press. Microsoft Press offers comprehensive learning and training resources help new users, power users, and professionals get the most from Microsoft technology through books, CDs, self-paced training kits, and videos that are created accommodate different learning styles and preferences. Microsoft Press books are authored professional and technical writers, both Microsoft employees and independent authors. Equity Investments -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company has entered into joint venture arrangements take advantage creative talent and content from other organizations. Microsoft owns percent MSNBC Cable ., -hour cable news and information channel, and percent MSNBC Interactive News ., interactive online news service. National Broadcasting Company (NBC) owns the remaining percent these two joint ventures. Microsoft owns percent Avanade Inc., joint venture with Accenture Ltd, which offers solutions and services based Windows . Product Development The software industry characterized rapid technological change, which requires constant attention computing technology trends, and shifting consumer demand, and rapid product innovation. The pace change accelerating the computing needs our customers move beyond the toward intelligent devices and appliances. Most the Company\' software products are developed internally. The Company also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees third-party development and localization certain products. Internal development enables Microsoft maintain closer technical control over its products and gives the Company the freedom designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. The Company has created substantial body proprietary development tools and has evolved development methodologies for creating and enhancing its products. These tools and methodologies are also designed simplify product\' portability among different operating systems, microprocessors, computing devices. Product documentation generally created internally. The Company believes that crucial factor the success new product getting market quickly respond new user needs advances intelligent devices, PCs, servers, and the Internet, without compromising product quality. The Company strives become informed the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, Microsoft provides software vendors range development, training, testing resources, and guidelines for developing applications. best serve the needs users around the world, Microsoft "localizes" many its products reflect local languages and conventions and improve the quality and usability the product international markets. Localizing product might require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Japanese versions, for example, all user messages and documentation are Japanese with monetary references the Japanese yen. Various Microsoft products have been localized into more than languages. During fiscal years , , and , the Company spent $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively, product research and development activities excluding funding joint venture activity. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years. The Company committed continue high expenditures for research and product development. Microsoft NET Microsoft\' platform for XML Web services. XML Web services allow applications communicate and share data over the Internet, regardless operating system programming language. The Microsoft NET platform includes comprehensive family products, built XML and Internet industry standards, which provide for each aspect developing, managing, using, and experiencing XML Web services. There are five areas where Microsoft building the NET platform today: Tools, Servers, XML Web Services, Clients, and NET Experiences. the Tools area, Visual Studio NET and the Microsoft NET framework supply complete solution for developers build, deploy, and run XML Web services. They maximize the performance, reliability, and security XML Web services. The NET Enterprise Servers, including the Windows Server family, make Microsoft NET\' server infrastructure for deploying, managing, and orchestrating XML Web services. Designed with mission- critical performance mind, they provide enterprises with the agility they need integrate their systems, applications, and partners through XML Web services, and the flexibility adapt changing business requirements. addition developers creating XML Web services, Microsoft creating core set building block services that perform routine tasks and act the backbone for developers build upon. The first set XML Web services being built, codenamed "HailStorm", group user-centric services oriented around people, rather than specific devices, networks, applications. HailStorm based upon the Microsoft Passport user authentication system. With HailStorm, users receive relevant information, they need , delivered the devices they are using, and based preferences they have established. Clients are PCs, laptops, workstations, phones, handheld computers, Tablet PCs, game consoles, and other smart devices. These smart clients and devices use software that supports XML Web services, which enable users access their data regardless the location, type, and number clients used. Smart clients and devices leverage XML Web services create NET experiences that allow users access information across the Internet and from stand-alone applications integrated way. Some the products that Microsoft transitioning into NET experiences are Office, MSN, bCentral, and Visual Studio NET. Manufacturing -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Microsoft contracts out most its manufacturing activity third parties. Outside manufacturers produce various retail software packaged products and hardware. There are other custom manufacturers Microsoft could use the event outsourced manufacturing becomes unavailable from current vendors. The Company\' -ROM manufacturing facilities are located Puerto Rico. The Company has multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components and often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. Quality control tests are performed purchased parts, -ROMs, and other products. Operations -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Microsoft manages all product fulfillment, licensing, and logistics services. The Company has regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and the Greater Seattle area. The regional centers support all operations activities, including information processing, vendor management, logistics, and related supporting functions geographical regions. The regional center Dublin, Ireland supports the European, African, and Middle East regions, the center Singapore supports the Asia Pacific region, and the center the Greater Seattle area supports North and South America. Microsoft Licensing Incorporated (MSLI), wholly-owned subsidiary Reno, Nevada, manages the Company\' original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and certain organizational licensing operations. Marketing and Distribution -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company\' sales and marketing group seeks build long-term relationships with customers Microsoft. The OEM sales group includes the sales force that works with original equipment manufacturers that preinstall Microsoft software their PCs. addition the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing organizations: the South Pacific and Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; and Asia. Finished Goods Channels -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Distributors and Resellers. The Company licenses and sells its products the finished goods channels primarily and through independent non-exclusive distributors and resellers. Distributors and resellers include Ingram Micro, Tech Data, Software Spectrum, Corporate Software & Technology, SOFTBANK, Software House International, ASAP Software Express, and Tech Pacific Group. Microsoft has network field sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support. Enterprise Accounts. The Microsoft Select program offers flexible software acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially customized meet the needs large multinational organizations. Targeted audiences include technology specialists and influential end users large enterprises. Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with large account resellers. The Microsoft Open program licensing program that targeted for small- and medium-sized organizations. available through the reseller channel and offers discounts based initial purchase volumes. The Microsoft Enterprise Agreement program licensing program designed provide flexible licensing and service solution tailored customers making long-term licensing commitment. The agreements are designed increase customer satisfaction simplifying license administration, payment terms, and the contract process. Certified Partners. Microsoft Certified Partners are independent companies that offer their clients leading-edge technology through consulting, deployment, remote and -site maintenance, helpdesk support, packaged software applications, hosting services, training, and more. Microsoft Certified Partners encompass broad range expertise and vendor affiliations and have experience ranging from networking, -commerce, collaboration, business intelligence, and other leading edge disciplines. International Sales Sites. The Company has established marketing and support subsidiaries more than countries. Product generally delivered the Company\' owned outsourced manufacturing operations, which are located the geographical region which the product was sold. organizing geographically, the Company able provide service international channel customers and access Microsoft professionals located the same region serve their specific needs. Subsidiaries have the responsibility for selling products customers, managing licensing programs, and providing support all types customers based international countries. The Company\' international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are subject certain risks common foreign operations general, such governmental regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Microsoft hedges portion its foreign exchange risk. OEM Channel -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Microsoft operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right distribute copies the Company\' products with their computing devices, principally PCs. The Company also markets and licenses certain server operating systems, desktop applications, hardware devices, and consumer software programs OEMs under similar arrangements. almost all cases, the products are distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering one more its products with virtually all the major OEMs, including Acer, Actebis, Compaq, Dell, eMachines, Fujitsu, Fujitsu Siemens Computers, Gateway, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Micron, NEC, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba. substantial amount OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume customized vendors. Advertising -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms. Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials are targeted various end-user segments. The Company uses broad consumer media (television, radio, the Internet, and business publications) and trade publications. Microsoft has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs are reimbursed for certain advertising expenditures. Customers -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company\' customers include consumers, small- and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, educational institutions, ISPs, application developers, and OEMs. Most consumers Microsoft products are individuals businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and home. The consumers and organizations obtain Microsoft products primarily through resellers and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their computing hardware. The Notes Financial Statements (see Item ) quantify customers that represent more than % the Company\' revenue. The Company\' practice ship its products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from its customers and, consequently, backlog not significant. Competition -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The software business intensely competitive and subject rapid technological change. the company pursues its largest strategic initiative, Microsoft NET, the Company could experience more intense competition during the transition from the traditional core businesses its new products based the NET platform. The Company continues face movements from -based applications server-based applications Web-based application hosting services, from proprietary software open source software, and from PCs Internet-based devices. number Microsoft\' most significant competitors, including IBM, Sun Microsystems, Oracle, and AOL Time Warner, are collaborating with one another various initiatives directed competing with Microsoft. These initiatives relate part efforts move software from individual PCs centrally managed servers, which would present significant challenges the Company\' historical business model. Other competitive collaborative efforts include the development new platform technologies that are intended replicate much the value Microsoft Windows operating systems. New computing form factors, including non- information devices, are gaining popularity and competing with PCs running Microsoft\' software products. Microsoft faces formidable competition these new areas and all areas its current business activity, including competition from many companies much larger than Microsoft. The rapid pace technological change, particularly the area Internet platforms and services, continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. The Company also faces relentless competition from software pirates who unlawfully copy and distribute Microsoft\' copyrighted software products, depriving the Company large amounts revenue annual basis. The Company\' competitive position may adversely affected one more the following factors the future, particularly view the fast pace technological change the computing industry. Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services -------------------------------------------- The Company\' competitors include many software application vendors, such IBM (Lotus), Oracle, Apple (Filemaker, Inc.), Sun Microsystems, Corel, Qualcomm, and local application developers Europe and Asia. IBM and Corel have large installed bases with their spreadsheet and word processor products, respectively, and both have aggressive pricing strategies. Also, IBM and Apple preinstall certain their application software products various models their PCs, competing directly with Microsoft\' desktop application software. Sun Microsystems\' Star Office also very aggressive with its pricing, offering free download from the Web nominal charge for . Additionally, Web- based application hosting services provide alternative -based applications such Microsoft Office. Microsoft\' operating system products face substantial competition from wide variety companies. Competitors such IBM, Apple Computer, Sun Microsystems, and others are vertically integrated both software development and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they preinstall their own computers. Many these operating system software products are also licensed third-party OEMs for preinstallation their computers. Microsoft\' operating system products compete with UNIX-based operating systems from wide range companies, including IBM, Hewlett- Packard, Sun Microsystems, and others. Variants UNIX run wide variety computer platforms and have gained increasing acceptance desktop operating systems. With increased attention toward open source software, the Linux operating system has gained increasing acceptance well. Several computer manufacturers preinstall Linux servers and many leading software developers have written applications that run Linux. Microsoft Windows operating systems are also threatened alternative platforms such those based Internet browsing software and Java technology promoted AOL Time Warner and Sun Microsystems. The Company competes the business providing enterprise-wide computing solutions with several competitors who enjoy larger share sales and larger installed bases. Many companies offer operating system software for mainframes and midrange computers, including IBM, Hewlett-Packard, and Sun Microsystems. Since legacy business systems are typically support-intensive, these competitors also offer substantial support services. Software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Oracle, IBM, Computer Associates, Sybase, and Informix. There are also several software vendors who offer connectivity servers. mentioned above, there are numerous companies and organizations that offer Internet and intranet server software, which compete against the Company\' business systems. Additionally, IBM has large installed base Lotus Notes and :Mail, both which compete with the Company\' collaboration and -mail products. The Company\' developer products compete against offerings from Borland, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Sybase, Symantec, and other companies. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices ---------------------------------------- Microsoft\' online services network, MSN, faces formidable competition from AOL Time Warner (including its CompuServe unit), Yahoo!, and vast array Web sites and portals that offer content all types and -mail, instant messaging, calendaring, chat, and search and shopping services, among other things. addition, the ease entry into Internet services has allowed numerous Web- based service companies build significant businesses areas such -mail, electronic commerce, Web search engines, directories, and information numerous types. Competitors include AOL Time Warner, Yahoo!, Excite, Lycos, Infoseek, AltaVista, and many others. The Company\' MSNBC joint ventures face considerable competition from other -hour cable and Internet news organizations such CNN, CNN Headline News, and Fox News Network. MSNBC also competes with traditional news media such newspapers, magazines, and broadcast . The Company\' Consumer Group continues see consolidation across the various entertainment and productivity segments which Microsoft competes. Competitors include Vivendi (Havas), Intuit, Electronic Arts, The Learning Company, Infogrammes, and Logitech. Still other competitors own branded content, such Disney and LucasArts. Additionally, -based games and the Company\' future Xbox compete and will compete head- -head against games created for proprietary systems such the Nintendo GameCube and the Sony PlayStation. Game developers like Electronic Arts, Namco, Midway, Activision, Konami, THQ, name few, are both partners and competitors the games software development segment. Microsoft faces many competitors the Mobile Devices space, including Palm, Symbian, Nokia, and Openwave. The embedded operating system market highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include Wind River and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Red Hat, Lineo, and Monta Vista. The largest competitor remains -house operating systems developed device manufacturers. However, this changing more device builders opt for commercial offerings connectivity and richer features are required devices. Consumer Commerce Investments ----------------------------- the United States, Expedia, Inc. competes with traditional travel distribution channels and online travel services such Travelocity com, Hotel Reservations Network, Priceline com, CheapTickets com, Biztravel com, Worldres com, and Trip com. Expedia also competes with supplier-owned sites such United com, Delta com, and Marriott com. addition, two new competitors owned various airlines, Orbitz and Hotwire, emerged fiscal year . Internationally, Expedia competes with different set participants each market. Microsoft faces many competitors the online real estate service space, including AOL\' House and Home channel and Homestore. The Company also faces many competitors the online automotive service space, including Autobytel, CarsDirect, AOL autos, and Yahoo! autos. Other ----- input devices face substantial competition from computer manufacturers, since computers are typically sold with keyboard and mouse, and other manufacturers these devices. Microsoft Press competes the retail book and eLearning markets with publishers that also create content Microsoft technologies. few the retail competitors are Pearson, WROX, Sybex, and Wiley. The major eLearning competitors are Smartforce and NetG. Employees -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- June , , the Company employed approximately , people full- time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales, marketing, and support, , manufacturing and distribution, and , finance and administration. Microsoft\' success highly dependent its ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. date, the Company believes has been successful its efforts recruit qualified employees, but there assurance that will continue successful the future. None the Company\' employees subject collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes relations with its employees are excellent. Item . Properties The Company\' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington. The Company constructing three buildings with approximately , square feet space that will occupied the Fall . The Company owns million square feet corporate campus space situated slightly more than acres land and leases approximately million square feet around the Puget Sound region. accommodate expansion needs the Company has option purchase acres land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet additional office space. The Company leases many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. This includes the recent acquisition the Great Plains facilities which totaled , square feet. The Company leases many sites internationally totaling approximately million square feet. The Company\' European operations center and localization division leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland. The Company leases , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico and leases , square-foot facility Singapore for its Asia Pacific operations center. The Company has office building space leased the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; United Kingdom campus , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; and Beijing, China , square feet. The Company\' facilities are fully used for current operations all segments and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. Item . Legal Proceedings See Notes Financial Statements-Contingencies (Item ) for information regarding legal proceedings. Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . Executive Officers the Registrant The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates, III Chairman the Board; Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Richard . Belluzzo President; Chief Operating Officer James . Allchin Group Vice President, Platforms Orlando Ayala Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Services Robert . (Robbie) Bach Senior Vice President, Games Douglas . Burgum Senior Vice President, Business Solutions; President, Great Plains Division David . Cole Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Jon Stephan DeVaan Senior Vice President, Division Richard . Emerson Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy Paul Flessner Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Servers Kevin . Johnson Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services Robert . Muglia Group Vice President, Personal Services Group Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy William . Neukom Executive Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services Richard . Rashid Senior Vice President, Research Steven . Sinofsky Senior Vice President, Office Brian Valentine Senior Vice President, Windows David Vaskevitch Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Business Platform Deborah . Willingham Senior Vice President, Human Resources . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman the Board since the Company\' incorporation. . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . had been President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . was Senior Vice President, Systems Software from . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Belluzzo was named President and Chief Operating Officer February . had been Group Vice President, Personal Services and Devices since August . joined Microsoft Group Vice President, Consumer and Commerce September . . Belluzzo had been Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Silicon Graphics, Inc. since January . Prior his employment Silicon Graphics, Inc., . Belluzzo was employed the Hewlett-Packard Company for years, serving since Executive Vice President and General Manager the computer organization. . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February , Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division since November , and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Ayala was named Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Services August . had been Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas since February , and before holding that position, was Vice President the developing markets Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. joined Microsoft May Senior Director the Latin America Region. . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Games March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Burgum joined the Company upon Microsoft\' acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. April . . Burgum became Great Plains\' first outside investor March . was named President Great Plains and subsequently named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. . Cole was named Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . Previously, was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Connors was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer December . had been Vice President, Enterprise since March . . Connors had been Vice President, Information Technology, and Chief Information Officer since July . joined Microsoft January . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa July . had been Vice President, Customer Marketing since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President Microsoft Europe since and General Manager for Microsoft France since . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . DeVaan was named Senior Vice President, Division December . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since September . . DeVaan had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications since . . DeVaan joined Microsoft . . Emerson joined Microsoft November Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy. Prior joining Microsoft, was Managing Director and -head Technology and Telecommunications Advisory Services international investment bank Lazard Freres & . LLC. spent years San Francisco and New York with Lazard and Morgan Stanley, specializing advising clients the technology and telecommunications sectors mergers, acquisitions, and strategic partnerships. . Flessner was named Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Servers December . had been Vice President, Database and Data Access. Since joining the Company, . Flessner\' primary responsibilities have been the development Microsoft\' database business. assumed responsibility for the engineering Microsoft SQL Server . joined Microsoft . . Johnson was named Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services August . had been Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. . Johnson was named Vice President, Product Support Services July . joined Microsoft . . Muglia was named Group Vice President, Personal Services Group August . had been Group Vice President, Business Productivity since December . was named Senior Vice President, Business Productivity March and was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools February . had been Vice President, Server Applications since and was Vice President, Developer Tools since . joined Microsoft January . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology December . . Neukom was named Executive Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs October . had been Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs since February . joined Microsoft Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs. . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services August . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . Before holding that position, had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Rashid was named Senior Vice President, Research May . had been Vice President, Research since July . joined Microsoft September . . Sinofsky was named Senior Vice President, Office December . had been Vice President, Office since December . . Sinofsky joined the Office team , increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release the desktop suite. joined Microsoft July . . Valentine was named Senior Vice President, Windows December . had been Vice President, Business and Enterprise since March . had been Vice President, Windows since December . Before managing the Windows group, . Valentine managed the server applications division and had been responsible for the Exchange product unit. joined Microsoft . . Vaskevitch was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Business Platform August . was named Senior Vice President, Business Applications March . had been Senior Vice President, Developer since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Distributed Applications Platform. joined Microsoft . . Willingham was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources February . She had been Vice President, Human Resources since April . . Willingham had been Vice President, Business and Enterprise Division Marketing and was responsible for Windows operating system client and server marketing strategy and training, well for providing centralized marketing services for the Consumer Windows Marketing and Streaming Media Marketing teams. She joined Microsoft . PART Item . Market for Registrant\' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters The Company\' common stock traded The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. July , , there were , registered holders record the Company\' common stock. The Company has not paid cash dividends its common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- April , , the Company closed the acquisition substantially all the assets iCommunicate Holding, Inc., Delaware corporation ("iCommunicate"). Promptly thereafter, the Company issued aggregate , its common shares iCommunicate, which were subsequently distributed iCommunicate\' eleven shareholders the liquidation iCommunicate. All the shares issued this transaction were issued non-public offering pursuant exemption from the registration requirements the Securities Act , amended (the " Act"), under Section ( ) the Act. May , , the Company issued aggregate , its common shares pursuant the merger subsidiary the Company with Ensemble Studios Corporation, Delaware corporation ("Ensemble"), owned shareholders. All the shares issued this transaction were issued non-public offering pursuant exemption from the registration requirements the Act, under Section ( ) the Act. The above described sales were made without general solicitation advertising. The Company has filed Registration Statement Form - covering the resale such securities issued pursuant such acquisitions. All net proceeds from the sale such securities will the selling shareholders who offer and sell their shares. The Company has not received and will not receive any proceeds from the sale these common shares other than the assets and certain liabilities iCommunicate and connection with the merger with Ensemble. Item . Selected Financial Data Financial Highlights ( millions, except earnings per share) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Year Ended June ( ) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Income before accounting change , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share before accounting change Diluted earnings per share Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Stockholders\' equity , , , , , -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ( ) Fiscal year includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per diluted share and $ billion (pre- tax) impairments certain investments, primarily cable and telecommunication investments. Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Results Operations for , , and -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports wide range software products for multitude computing devices. Microsoft software includes scalable operating systems for servers, personal computers (PCs), and intelligent devices; server applications for client server environments; knowledge worker productivity applications; and software development tools. The Company\' online efforts include the MSN network Internet products and services and alliances with companies involved with broadband access and various forms digital interactivity. Microsoft also licenses consumer software programs; sells hardware devices; provides consulting services; trains and certifies system integrators and developers; and researches and develops advanced technologies for future software products. Management\' Discussion and Analysis contains statements that are forward- looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because factors discussed below under "Issues and Uncertainties." Revenue -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company\' revenue growth rate was % fiscal , % fiscal , and % fiscal . Revenue growth fiscal was driven primarily licensing Microsoft Windows Professional, Microsoft SQL Server, and the other NET Enterprise Servers. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices revenue also grew strongly. Partially offsetting those items was flat revenue growth from Windows Millennium Edition (Windows ) and Windows operating systems, reflecting the slowdown consumer shipments and higher mix Windows Professional and Windows Workstation. Revenue growth fiscal was driven strong licensing Microsoft Windows Workstation, Windows Professional, Windows Server, Windows Server, Microsoft Office , and SQL Server. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices revenue also grew strongly. Partially offsetting those items was slower growth from Windows operating systems sold through the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) channel due slow demand for business PCs throughout significant portion fiscal . Revenue growth fiscal reflected the continued adoption Windows operating systems and Microsoft Office. addition, the Company\' estimate for future product returns was reduced $ million fiscal . fiscal , Microsoft made two changes related the ratable recognition revenue for portion its revenue for certain products. American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Modification SOP - , Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect Certain Transactions, requires companies use the average sales price each undelivered element software arrangements unbundle revenue. Prior authoritative accounting guidance allowed comparison the total price differential between licensed product sold through different channels distribution derive the value undelivered elements offered customers acquiring product from one channel but not the other. Upon adoption this new rule the fourth quarter fiscal , the percentages the total arrangement treated unearned decreased. This change reduced the amount Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office sales treated unearned and increased the amount revenue recognized upon shipment. Additionally, part the Company\' long range planning process and review product shipment cycles, was determined that the life cycle Windows should extended from two years three years. Product Revenue Microsoft has four segments: Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services; Consumer Software, Services, and Devices; Consumer Commerce Investments; and Other. The Management Discussion and Analysis presentation revenue differs from that reported under the Company\' Segment Information appearing the Notes Financial Statements because reconciling items are allocated those segments. Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services includes Desktop Applications; Desktop Platforms; and Enterprise Software and Services. Desktop Applications revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop Applications includes revenue from Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Visio; client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server and Windows Server, Exchange, and BackOffice; Microsoft Great Plains; and bCentral. fiscal , revenue from client access licenses increased % reflecting strong licensing growth Windows Server and Windows Server CALs. Office revenue growth was flat during the year. fiscal and , revenue growth from Microsoft Office integrated suites, including the Premium, Professional, Small Business, and Standard Editions were very solid. Desktop Platforms revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop Platforms includes revenue from Windows Professional, Windows Workstation, Windows , Windows , and other desktop operating systems. Fiscal revenue growth reflected the strong adoption Windows Professional, partially offset flat revenue growth from Windows and Windows operating systems, reflecting the slowdown consumer shipments and higher mix Windows Professional and Windows Workstation. fiscal , Desktop Platforms revenue growth was modest due soft demand for business PCs during most the year; slowdown shipments anticipation the post mid-year availability Windows operating systems; and, expected, longer business migration cycle for the newest Windows operating system offerings. fiscal , Windows units licensed through the OEM channel, particularly Windows Workstation, increased strongly over the prior year. Organizational licensing Windows Workstation and Windows also contributed the growth. Enterprise Software and Services revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Enterprise Software and Services includes Enterprise Platforms, Server Applications, Developer Tools and Services, and Enterprise Services. result the continued adoption Microsoft\' NET Enterprise Server offerings fiscal , Server Applications revenue increased % versus the prior year. Enterprise Services revenue, representing consulting and product support services, was % compared fiscal . Enterprise Platforms, which includes Windows Server and Windows Server operating systems, increased % while revenue from Developer Tools and Services was flat with the prior year. fiscal , Enterprise Platforms revenue growth was particularly strong led increased adoption customers Windows Server and Windows Server. Revenue from Server Applications grew strongly, largely due the strong success SQL Server . Software Developer Tools and Services revenue declined, due increased suite licensing versus stand-alone licenses, and the lack release upgrade the Visual Studio development system. fiscal , the revenue growth rate for Windows Server was healthy. Revenue from Server Applications grew strongly, reflecting, part, the release SQL Server . The Visual Studio development system drove healthy Developer Tools and Services revenue growth. Consulting services revenue rose substantially. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices Consumer Software, Services, and Devices revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Consumer Software, Services, and Devices includes MSN Internet access; MSN network service; WebTV Internet access and services; and online games; learning and productivity software; mobile and wireless devices; and embedded systems. fiscal , revenue from MSN network services grew strongly light the decline the online advertising market. MSN Internet access revenue also grew solidly result increased subscriber base, partially offset decline the average revenue per subscriber due larger mix subscribers contracted under rebate programs. Revenue from embedded systems grew strongly from the prior year, while learning and productivity software revenue and and online games revenue declined, reflecting softness the overall consumer market. fiscal , online revenue growth was very strong and reflected higher subscriber totals, offset lower net prices for Internet access subscriptions compared the prior year. Additionally, strong sell-through entertainment software produced robust revenue growth. fiscal , online advertising revenue rose substantially and Internet access revenue increased moderately. Consumer Commerce Investments Consumer Commerce Investments revenue was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Consumer Commerce Investments include Expedia, Inc., the HomeAdvisor online real estate service, and the CarPoint online automotive service. Acquisitions Travelscape com and VacationSpot com Expedia, Inc., and increased product offerings from Expedia led the strong revenue growth fiscal . The increased overall reach all properties led the strong revenue growth fiscal and . July , , USA Networks, Inc. (USA) announced agreement acquire controlling interest Expedia through the purchase million shares, approximately % the current outstanding shares. holders more than million Expedia shares elect sell their shares USA, there will pro rata reduction among all electing shareholders. Microsoft has agreed transfer all its million shares and warrants, subject pro-ration. expected that the transaction will close December , . Other Other revenue was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Other primarily includes Hardware and Microsoft Press. Lower sales gaming devices and other hardware peripherals result weakness the consumer market caused the decline revenue fiscal . Continued success the Company\' new hardware device offerings led the revenue growth fiscal . Revenue from hardware devices and Microsoft Press was relatively flat fiscal . Distribution Channels Microsoft distributes its products primarily through OEM licenses, organizational licenses, online services and products, and retail packaged products. OEM channel revenue represents license fees from original equipment manufacturers who preinstall Microsoft products, primarily PCs. Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing regions: the South Pacific and Americas Region; the Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region; and the Asia Region. Sales organizational licenses and packaged products via these channels are primarily and through distributors and resellers. OEM revenue was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . Although total licenses were impacted slowdown shipments fiscal , the mix the higher priced Windows Professional and Windows Workstation the OEM channel increased substantially resulting higher average revenue per license. The relatively low growth rate fiscal was due lower business shipment growth, especially result the soft demand for business PCs and component shortages for part the year. These issues combined with post mid-year availability Windows Professional resulted lower revenue growth. Average earned revenue per license also declined compared the prior year, due part mix shift the lower- priced Windows operating system reflecting the softness demand for business PCs and lower prices operating systems licensed through certain OEM channel sectors. fiscal , shipment growth coupled with increased penetration higher value -bit operating systems drove the OEM revenue increases. South Pacific and Americas Region revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . fiscal , revenue growth, principally the United States, was led strong licensing Windows Professional and the family NET Enterprise Servers, particularly SQL Server and Exchange Server. Revenue from Enterprise services and MSN subscription and services grew strongly. fiscal , Office integrated suites, Windows Server, online revenue, and SQL Server sales were the primary drivers the revenue growth. Strong retail sales hardware devices and consumer software also contributed the growth over the prior year. Revenue growth was particularly strong Latin America and Australia, moderate Canada, and modest the United States. fiscal , server applications, Windows Server, Windows Workstation, and Microsoft Office all exhibited solid year-over-year growth rates. Organizational licensing activity was strong. Revenue growth was solid the United States and moderate Latin America and the South Pacific. Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . fiscal , weakening local currencies negatively impacted translated revenue compared the prior year. Revenue the region would have increased % foreign exchange rates were constant with those the prior year. Revenue from Windows Professional and the NET Enterprise Server family products was very healthy. fiscal , retail sales Windows operating systems and Office licensing produced moderate growth the region. Growth from SQL Server licensing, new hardware device offerings, and entertainment software was especially strong. Revenue growth, measured constant dollars, was very healthy Germany and Italy, robust the Middle East, and low the United Kingdom. fiscal , all major products grew strongly over the prior year. Revenue growth was solid the United Kingdom, Germany, and France, and was particularly high Sweden, the Netherlands, and Spain. Asia Region revenue was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . fiscal , the region\' growth rate reflected strong revenue from localized versions Microsoft Office and Microsoft Office , especially the Office Personal suite. The growth was also attributable Windows Professional and NET Server applications licensing. Revenue growth was particularly strong Korea and the greater China region, resulting from advantageous economic conditions well successful anti-piracy efforts. fiscal , the region\' growth rate reflected strong performance resulting from improved local economic conditions. Revenue growth was also influenced robust growth localized versions Microsoft Office , especially the Office Personal Edition sold Japan, Windows platform and server licensing, and strong adoption SQL Server. Revenue grew strongly nearly all countries the Asia region. fiscal , Japan, Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, and Southeast Asia had moderate revenue growth, while revenue grew very strongly Korea. The Company\' operating results are affected foreign exchange rates. Approximately %, %, and % the Company\' revenue was collected foreign currencies during , , and . Since portion local currency revenue hedged and much the Company\' international manufacturing costs and operating expenses are also incurred local currencies, the impact exchange rates partially mitigated. Operating Expenses -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Cost Revenue Cost revenue percent revenue was % , % , and % . fiscal , higher support and service costs associated with the MSN Internet access and MSN network services were partially offset the lower relative costs associated with organizational licensing and the drop the mix packaged product versus the prior year. Cost revenue fiscal reflected lower costs associated with WebTV Networks\' operations, partially offset the growth hardware peripherals costs. Cost revenue percentage revenue decreased fiscal primarily due the trend mix shift OEM and organizational licenses. Additionally, cost revenue was positively impacted reduction estimates obsolete inventory and other manufacturing costs $ million. Research and Development Microsoft continued invest heavily the future funding research and development ( & ). fiscal , the increase & expense was the result higher headcount-related costs and investments new product initiatives. The increase fiscal was driven primarily higher headcount-related costs. The increase fiscal reflected higher development headcount- related costs offset lower infrastructure and third-party development costs. Sales and Marketing fiscal , sales and marketing expenses percentage revenue increased due higher relative headcount-related costs, higher marketing and sales expenses associated with MSN, the Microsoft Agility advertising campaign, and other new sales initiatives. fiscal , sales and marketing expenses percentage revenue increased due higher relative marketing costs associated with new product releases and online marketing. fiscal , sales and marketing expense percentage revenue decreased due lower relative sales expenses and lower relative marketing costs. General and Administrative fiscal , general and administrative costs decreased due charge related the settlement the lawsuit with Caldera, Inc. recorded fiscal . Excluding this charge, general and administrative expenses fiscal increased from the prior year due higher headcount-related costs and legal fees. For fiscal , besides the settlement the lawsuit, general and administrative expenses also reflected increased legal fees and certain employee stock option-related expenses. The increase fiscal year was attributable higher legal fees, settlement costs, and headcount-related costs necessary support the Company\' expanding operations. Non-operating Items, Investment Income/(Loss), and Income Taxes -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Losses equity investees and other incorporates Microsoft\' share income loss from the MSNBC entities, Avanade, Wireless Knowledge, StarBand Communications, and other investments accounted for using the equity method. The increase losses equity investees and other fiscal reflects increase the number such investments during the year. fiscal and , losses equity investees decreased reflecting smaller losses from the MSNBC entities. fiscal , the Company reported investment loss $ million, decrease investment income $ billion versus fiscal . Net recognized losses were $ billion fiscal , reflecting $ billion impairments certain investments, primarily the cable and telecommunication industries, and $ million net losses attributable derivative instruments. These losses were partially offset higher net gains from the sales investments, including gain from Microsoft\' investment Titus Communications (which was merged with Jupiter Telecommunications) and the closing the sale Transpoint CheckFree Holdings Corp. Interest and dividend income increased $ million from the prior year, reflecting larger investment portfolio. fiscal years and , investment income increased primarily result larger investment portfolio generated cash from operations coupled with realized gains from the sale securities. The effective tax rate for fiscal was %. The effective tax rate for fiscal was %. Excluding the impact the gain the sale Softimage, Inc., the effective tax rate for fiscal was %. Accounting Change -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Effective July , , Microsoft adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. All derivatives, whether designated hedging relationships not, are required recorded the balance sheet fair value. the derivative designated fair value hedge, the changes the fair value the derivative and the hedged item are recognized earnings. the derivative designated cash flow hedge, changes the fair value the derivative are recorded other comprehensive income (OCI) and are recognized the income statement when the hedged item affects earnings. The adoption SFAS resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax reduction OCI $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset the reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Financial Condition -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company\' cash and short-term investment portfolio totaled $ billion June , . The portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Microsoft\' investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. Cash flow from operations was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable the growth revenue and other changes working capital, partially offset the decrease the stock option income tax benefit, reflecting decreased stock option exercises employees. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase primarily reflects the repurchase put warrants fiscal , compared the sale put warrants the prior fiscal year, well increase common stock repurchased. All outstanding put warrants were either retired exercised during fiscal . During fiscal , the Company repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. fiscal , cash flow from operations was $ billion, decrease $ million from the prior year, reflecting working capital changes partially offset the increase the stock option income tax benefit. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year, reflecting increase common stock repurchased versus the prior year. During fiscal , the Company repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. fiscal , cash flow from operations was $ billion, increase $ billion from the prior year, reflecting the growth revenue and the increase the stock option income tax benefit. Cash used for financing was $ million fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. During fiscal , the Company repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year, reflecting the growth the investment portfolio. Microsoft has material long-term debt. Stockholders\' equity June , was $ billion. Microsoft will continue invest sales, marketing, and product support infrastructure. Additionally, research and development activities will include investments existing and advanced areas technology, including using cash acquire technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for & , sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . Cash will also used for strategic opportunities. addition, cash will used repurchase common stock provide shares for employee stock option and purchase plans. Since fiscal , Microsoft has repurchased million common shares while billion shares were issued under the Company\' employee stock option and purchase plans. The market value all outstanding stock options was $ billion June , . During December , Microsoft issued million shares % convertible exchangeable preferred stock. The Company\' convertible preferred stock matured December , . Each preferred share was converted into common shares. Management believes existing cash and short-term investments together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements. The Company\' cash and short-term investments are available for strategic investments, mergers and acquisitions, and other potential large-scale needs and fund the share repurchase program. Microsoft has not paid cash dividends its common stock. Recently Issued Accounting Standards -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS , Business Combinations, and SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separately from goodwill. SFAS will require that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. SFAS required applied starting with fiscal years beginning after December , , with early application permitted certain circumstances. The Company plans early adopt SFAS fiscal and does not expect any impairment goodwill upon adoption. Goodwill amortization was approximately $ million fiscal and approximately $ million fiscal . Issues and Uncertainties -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- While Microsoft management optimistic about the Company\' long-term prospects, the following issues and uncertainties, among others, should considered evaluating its growth outlook. Rapid Technological Change and Competition Rapid change, uncertainty due new and emerging technologies, and fierce competition characterize the software industry, which means that Microsoft\' market position always risk. Microsoft\' ability maintain its current market share may depend upon the Company\' ability satisfy customer requirements, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products and achieve market acceptance such products. This process grows more challenging the pace change continues accelerate. Open source software, new computing devices, new microprocessor architectures, the Internet, and Web-based computing models are among the competitive challenges the Company must meet. Microsoft does not successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products market timely and cost-efficient manner, the Company\' business growth will suffer and demand for its products will decrease. Future Initiatives The Company plans continue make significant investments software research and development including Microsoft NET, "HailStorm", Xbox, wireless technologies, digital devices, television, and small business. anticipated that these investments research and development will increase over historical spending levels. Significant revenue from these product opportunities may not achieved for number years, all. Growth Rates The nature the marketplace changing ways that may reduce Microsoft\' software sales and revenue growth. Overall market demand for PCs can significantly impact Microsoft\' revenue growth. Recently, manufacturers have sought reach more consumers developing and producing lower cost PCs - PCs that come without pre-installed software contain software with reduced functionality. addition the influx low-cost PCs, market for handheld computing and communication devices has developed. While these devices are not powerful versatile PCs, they threaten erode sales growth the market for PCs with pre-installed software. This may affect Microsoft\' revenue growth because manufacturers may choose not install Microsoft software these low-cost PCs consumers may purchase alternative intelligent devices that not use Microsoft software. These lower-priced devices require Microsoft provide lower-priced software with subset the original functionality. result, the Company may generate less revenue from the sale software produced for these devices than from the sale software for PCs. Product Development The software industry inherently complex. New products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new product releases significant problems creating new products could damage Microsoft\' business. The Company anticipates that Windows and Xbox will released fiscal . Delays either product may adversely affect revenue and net income. Prices The competitive factors described above may require Microsoft lower product prices meet competition, reducing the Company\' revenue and net income. Earnings Process increasingly higher percentage the Company\' revenue subject ratable recognition, which impacts the timing revenue and earnings recognition. Ratable revenue recognition may required for additional products, depending specific license terms and conditions. Also, maintenance and new subscription programs are increasing popularity. Employee Compensation Microsoft employees currently receive salaries, incentive bonuses, other benefits, and stock options. New government regulations, poor stock price performance, other factors could diminish the value the option program current and prospective employees and require the Company pay higher salaries and other cash compensation. International Operations Microsoft develops and sells products throughout the world. The prices the Company\' products countries outside the United States are generally higher than the Company\' prices the United States because the cost incurred localizing software for non- . markets. The costs producing and selling the Company\' products these countries are also higher. Pressure globalize Microsoft\' pricing structure might require that the Company reduce the sales price its software other countries, even though the costs the software continue higher than the United States. Unfavorable changes software "piracy" trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region; difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; and potential adverse foreign tax consequences; among other factors, could also have impact the Company\' business and results operations outside the United States. Intellectual Property Rights Microsoft diligently defends its intellectual property rights, but unlicensed copying software represents loss revenue the Company. While this adversely affects . revenue, revenue loss even more significant outside the United States, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Throughout the world, Microsoft actively educates consumers the benefits licensing genuine products and educates lawmakers the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued efforts may not affect revenue positively. Litigation Litigation regarding intellectual property rights, patents, and copyrights occurs the software industry. addition, there are government regulation and investigation risks along with other general corporate legal risks. The Company defendant lawsuit filed the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice and group eighteen state Attorneys General alleging violations the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. After the trial, the District Court entered Findings Fact and Conclusions Law stating that Microsoft had violated Sections and the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. Judgment was entered June , ordering, among other things, the breakup Microsoft into two companies. The Judgment was stayed pending appeal. June , , the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit affirmed part, reversed part, and vacated the Judgment its entirety and remanded the case the District Court for new trial one Section claim and for entry new judgment consistent with its ruling. its ruling, the Court Appeals substantially narrowed the bases liability found the District Court, but affirmed some the District Court\' conclusions that Microsoft had violated Section . September , , the plaintiffs announced that remand they will not ask the Court break Microsoft , that they will seek imposition conduct remedies, and that they will not retry the one Section claim returned the District Court the Court Appeals. August , , Microsoft petitioned the Supreme Court for writ certiorari review the appellate court\' ruling concerning its disqualification the District Court judge. Microsoft may petition the Supreme Court review other aspects the appellate court\' decision after final judgment entered. response the Court Appeal\' decision, Microsoft has modified the terms its agreements with computer manufacturers permit them remove Internet Explorer icons from Windows when the manufacturer wants promote alternative browser, and modifying other provisions the agreements. While the Company cannot predict with certainty the final outcome this matter, its resolution may result additional changes the Company\' business practices and could affect how the Company develops and markets new products and services. addition, while the Court Appeals ruling vacated the remedies portion the Judgment its entirety, possible the District Court could enter new judgment providing for certain remedies that would have material adverse effect the Company the Company cannot obtain relief from such provisions appeal. large number antitrust class action lawsuits have been initiated against Microsoft. These cases allege that Microsoft has competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications and seek recover alleged overcharges that the complaints contend Microsoft charged for these products. Although Microsoft believes the claims are without merit and vigorously defending the cases, the Company cannot predict with certainty the outcome these lawsuits. Future Growth Rate The revenue growth rate may not approach the level attained prior years. Because the fixed nature significant portion operating expenses, coupled with the possibility slower revenue growth, operating margins may decrease from those . addition, with the anticipated introduction Xbox fiscal , cost revenue percentage revenue may increase versus prior years. Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The Company exposed foreign currency, interest rate, and securities price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact the Company\' results operations and financial position. The Company hedges the exposure accounts receivable and portion anticipated revenue foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. The Company monitors its foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness its foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed income securities are subject interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. The Company routinely uses options hedge its exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Many securities held the Company\' equity and other investments portfolio are subject price risk. The Company uses options hedge its price risk certain highly volatile equity securities. The Company uses value- -risk (VAR) model estimate and quantify its market risks. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. Assumptions applied the VAR model June , and June , include the following: normal market conditions; Monte Carlo modeling with , simulated market price paths; % confidence interval; and -day estimated loss fair value for each market risk category. Accordingly, % the time the estimated - day loss fair value would nominal for foreign currency denominated investments and accounts receivable June , and June , , and would not exceed $ million and $ million June , and June , for interest-sensitive investments $ billion and $ million June , and June , for equity securities. Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Income Statements ( millions, except earnings per share) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Year Ended June --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total operating expenses , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Operating income , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) , , ( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Income before accounting change , , , Cumulative effect accounting change (net income taxes $ ) -- -- ( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net income $ , $ , $ , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Basic earnings per share: Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change -- -- ( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- $ $ $ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diluted earnings per share: Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change -- -- ( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- $ $ $ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diluted , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- See accompanying notes. Balance Sheets ( millions) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- June ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable , , Deferred income taxes , , Other , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Other assets , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total assets $ , $ , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Liabilities and stockholders\' equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation Income taxes , Unearned revenue , , Other , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total current liabilities , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deferred income taxes , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Common stock and paid- capital--shares authorized , ; shares issued and outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ , and $ , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total stockholders\' equity , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity $ , $ , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- See accompanying notes. Cash Flows Statements ( millions) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Year Ended June --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax -- -- Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , Net recognized (gains)/losses investments ( ) ( , ) , Stock option income tax benefits , , , Deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities , ( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net cash from operations , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sales/(repurchases) put warrants ( , ) Preferred stock dividends ( ) ( ) -- Other, net -- -- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net cash used for financing ( ) ( , ) ( , ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Investing Additions property and equipment ( ) ( ) ( , ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net cash used for investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net change cash and equivalents , ( ) ( ) Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning year , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Cash and equivalents, end year $ , $ , $ , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- See accompanying notes. Stockholders\' Equity Statements ( millions) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Year Ended June ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Convertible preferred stock Balance, beginning year $ $ $ -- Conversion preferred common stock -- ( ) -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Balance, end year -- -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning year , , , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Sales/(repurchases) put warrants ( , ) Stock option income tax benefits , , , Other, net ( ) -- ( ) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Balance, end year , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Retained earnings Balance, beginning year , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Cumulative effect accounting change -- -- ( ) Net gains derivative instruments -- -- Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) , ( ) ( , ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Comprehensive income , , , Preferred stock dividends ( ) ( ) -- Immaterial pooling interests -- -- Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Balance, end year , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Total stockholders\' equity $ , $ , $ , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ See accompanying notes. Notes Financial Statements Accounting Policies Accounting Principles The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with generally accepted accounting principles the United States. Principles Consolidation The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which Microsoft owns least % the voting securities are accounted for using the equity method, except for investments which the Company not able exercise significant influence over the investee, which case, the cost method accounting used. Issuances shares subsidiary are accounted for capital transactions. Estimates and Assumptions Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include provisions for returns, concessions and bad debts; and the length product life cycles and buildings\' lives. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited other comprehensive income. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Revenue Recognition Revenue from products licensed original equipment manufacturers recorded when OEMs ship licensed products while revenue from certain license programs recorded when the software has been delivered and the customer invoiced. Revenue from packaged product sales and through distributors and resellers recorded when related products are shipped. Maintenance and subscription revenue recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue attributable undelivered elements, including technical support and Internet browser technologies, based the average sales price those elements and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the product\' life cycle. When the revenue recognition criteria required for distributor and reseller arrangements are not met, revenue recognized payments are received. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for certain products, are accrued. Provisions are recorded for returns, concessions, and bad debts. Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes direct costs produce and distribute product and direct costs provide online services, consulting, product support, and training and certification system integrators. Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed, does not materially affect the Company. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million , $ billion , and $ billion . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect this difference reported deferred income taxes. Financial Instruments The Company considers all liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Short-term investments generally mature between three months and six years from the purchase date. All cash and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses are reflected other comprehensive income (OCI). Equity and other investments include debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary losses) are reflected other comprehensive income. All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. Microsoft lends certain fixed income and equity securities enhance investment income. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. The fair value collateral that Microsoft permitted sell repledge was $ million June , . There was collateral that Microsoft was permitted sell repledge June , . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. The Company employs systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment its investments. the event that the cost investment exceeds its fair value, the Company evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost; the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors; and the Company\' intent and ability hold the investment. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. , the Company recognized $ billion impairments certain investments, primarily the cable and telecommunication industries. The Company uses derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, security price, and interest rate risks. The Company\' objectives for holding derivatives are minimize these risks using the most effective methods eliminate reduce the impact these exposures. Foreign Currency Risk --------------------- Certain forecasted transactions and assets are exposed foreign currency risk. The Company monitors its foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness its foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Options used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future are designated cash flow hedging instruments. Options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies. Securities Price Risk --------------------- Strategic equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, the Company uses and designates options hedge fair values and cash flows certain equity securities. The security, forecasted sale thereof, selected for hedging determined market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Once established, the hedges are not dynamically managed traded, and are generally not removed until maturity. Interest Rate Risk ------------------ Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. The Company routinely uses options, not designated hedging instruments, hedge its exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Other Derivatives ----------------- addition, the Company may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. For options designated either fair value cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness. Property and Equipment Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the software three years. Intangible Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from three seven years. The Company periodically evaluates the recoverability intangible assets and takes into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Business Combinations, and SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separately from goodwill. SFAS will require that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. SFAS required applied starting with fiscal years beginning after December , , with early application permitted certain circumstances. The Company plans early adopt SFAS fiscal and does not expect any impairment goodwill upon adoption. Goodwill amortization was approximately $ million fiscal and approximately $ million fiscal . Reclassifications Certain reclassifications have been made for consistent presentation. Accounting Change Effective July , , the Company adopted SFAS , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. All derivatives, whether designated hedging relationships not, are required recorded the balance sheet fair value. the derivative designated fair value hedge, the changes the fair value the derivative and the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings. the derivative designated cash flow hedge, the effective portions changes the fair value the derivative are recorded other comprehensive income and are recognized the income statement when the hedged item affects earnings. Ineffective portions changes the fair value cash flow hedges are recognized earnings. The adoption SFAS July , , resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax reduction OCI $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. The net derivative losses included OCI July , were reclassified into earnings during the twelve months ended June , . The change accounting from the adoption SFAS did not materially affect net income . Unearned Revenue portion Microsoft\' revenue earned ratably over the product life cycle , the case subscriptions, over the period the license agreement. End users receive certain elements the Company\' products over period time. These elements include items such browser technologies and technical support. Consequently, Microsoft\' earned revenue reflects the recognition the fair value these elements over the product\' life cycle. Upon adoption American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Modification SOP - , With Respect Certain Transactions, during the fourth quarter fiscal , the Company was required change the methodology attributing the fair value undelivered elements. The percentages undelivered elements relation the total arrangement decreased, reducing the amount Windows and Office revenue treated unearned, and increasing the amount revenue recognized upon shipment. The percentage revenue recognized ratably decreased from range % % range approximately % % Windows desktop operating systems. For desktop applications, the percentage decreased from approximately % range approximately % %. The ranges depend the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. addition, the fourth quarter fiscal , the Company extended the life cycle Windows from two three years based upon management\' review product shipment cycles. Product life cycles are currently estimated months for desktop applications. The Company also sells subscriptions certain products via maintenance and certain organizational license agreements. June , and , Desktop Applications unearned revenue was $ billion and $ billion. Desktop Platforms unearned revenue was $ billion and $ billion. Enterprise Software and Services unearned revenue was $ million and $ million. Unearned revenue associated with Consumer Software, Services, and Devices, and Other was $ million and $ million June , and . Cash and Short-Term Investments --------------------------------------------------------------- Millions / June --------------------------------------------------------------- Cash and equivalents: Cash $ $ , Commercial paper , Certificates deposit , . government and agency securities Corporate notes and bonds , Municipal securities -- --------------------------------------------------------------- Cash and equivalents , , --------------------------------------------------------------- Short-term investments: Commercial paper . government and agency securities , , Corporate notes and bonds , , Municipal securities , , Certificates deposit --------------------------------------------------------------- Short-term investments , , --------------------------------------------------------------- Cash and short-term investments $ , $ , =============================================================== June , and , cost approximated market for all classifications cash and short-term investments. Realized gains and (losses) from cash and short-term investments were $ million and $( ) million , $ million and $( ) million , and $ million and $( ) million . Property and Equipment ---------------------------------------------------------------- Millions / June ---------------------------------------------------------------- Land $ $ Buildings , , Computer equipment and software , , Other , ---------------------------------------------------------------- Property and equipment-- cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) ---------------------------------------------------------------- Property and equipment--net $ , $ , ================================================================ During , , and , depreciation expense, which the majority related computer equipment, was $ million, $ million, and $ million. Equity and Other Investments Cost Unrealized Unrealized Recorded Millions / June , Basis Gains Losses Basis --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ $ -- $ Between and years ( ) Between and years ( ) Beyond years , -- ( ) , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Debt securities recorded market , ( , ) , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Common stock and warrants , , ( , ) , Preferred stock , -- -- , Other investments -- -- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Equity and other investments $ , $ , $( , ) $ , =============================================================================================================== Cost Unrealized Unrealized Recorded Millions / June , Basis Gains Losses Basis --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ -- $ -- $ Between and years ( ) Between and years -- ( ) Beyond years , -- ( ) , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Debt securities recorded market , ( ) , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Common stock and warrants , , ( ) , Preferred stock -- -- Other investments -- -- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Equity and other investments $ , $ , $( , ) $ , =============================================================================================================== Debt securities include corporate and government notes and bonds and derivative securities. Debt securities maturing beyond years are composed entirely & % convertible preferred debt with contractual maturity years. The debt convertible into & common stock after December , , may redeemed & upon satisfaction certain conditions after June , . Equity securities that are restricted for more than one year not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , and , the estimated fair value these investments excess their recorded basis was $ billion and $ million, based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. Realized gains and (losses) from equity and other investments (excluding impairments discussed previously) were $ million and $( ) million , $ billion and $( ) million , and $ billion and $( ) million . Derivatives For the twelve months ended June , , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million gain for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million loss for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During the twelve months ended June , , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). The derivative losses reclassified investment income/(loss) were offset gains the item being hedged. The Company estimates that $ million net derivative gains included other comprehensive income will reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. For instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS , had impact earnings for the twelve months ended June , . fair value hedges cash flow hedges were derecognized discontinued for the twelve months ended June , . Investment Income/(Loss) The components investment income/(loss) are follows: Millions / Year Ended June ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dividends $ $ $ Interest , , , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments , ( , ) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Investment income/(loss) $ , $ , $ ( ) ==================================================================================================== Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted : Millions / Year Ended June ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Current taxes: . and state $ , $ , $ , International ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes ( ) ( ) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , ==================================================================================================== . and international components income before income taxes were: Millions / Year Ended June ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- . $ , $ , $ , International , , , ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , ==================================================================================================== , the effective tax rate was %, excluding the impact the gain the sale Softimage, Inc. , the effective tax rate was %, and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for tax credits and % increase for other items. , the effective tax rate was %, and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for tax credits and % increase for other items. The components the differences between the . statutory tax rate and the Company\' effective tax rate were not significant. Deferred income taxes were: ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Millions / June ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deferred income tax assets: Revenue items $ , $ , Expense items , , ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deferred income tax assets , , ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deferred income tax liabilities: Unrealized gain investments ( ) ( ) International earnings ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deferred income tax liabilities $( , ) $( , ) ==================================================================================================== During fiscal , the . Tax Court issued adverse ruling which being appealed the 9th Circuit Court Appeals for taxes assessed and . Income taxes, except for and assessments, have been settled with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for all years through . The IRS examining the Company\' and . income tax returns. Management believes any adjustments which may required will not material the financial statements. Income taxes paid were $ million , $ million , and $ billion . Convertible Preferred Stock During , Microsoft issued million shares % convertible exchangeable principal-protected preferred stock. The Company\' convertible preferred stock matured December , . Each preferred share was converted into common shares. Common Stock Shares common stock outstanding were follows: Millions / Year Ended June ------------------------------------------------------------------- Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) ------------------------------------------------------------------- Balance, end year , , , =================================================================== Repurchase Program The Company repurchases its common shares the open market provide shares for issuance employees under stock option and stock purchase plans. During , the Company executed two forward settlement structured repurchase agreements with independent third party totaling million shares stock and paid cash for portion the purchase price. , the Company settled the agreements returning million shares stock, based upon the stock price the date settlement. The timing and method settlement were the discretion the Company. The differential between the cash paid and the price Microsoft common stock the date the agreement was originally reflected common stock and paid- capital. , the Company entered into structured stock repurchase transaction giving the right acquire million its shares ( million shares October and million shares June ) exchange for -front net payment $ million. Put Warrants enhance its stock repurchase program, Microsoft sold put warrants independent third parties. These put warrants entitled the holders sell shares Microsoft common stock the Company certain dates specified prices. the third quarter fiscal , the Company issued million shares settle portion the outstanding put warrants. During fiscal , all the remaining outstanding put warrants were either retired exercised. Other Comprehensive Income The changes the components other comprehensive income were follows: Millions / Year Ended June ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax effect $( ) $ -- $ -- $ ( ) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net gain derivative instruments: Unrealized gains, net tax effect $ -- -- Reclassification adjustment for losses included net income, net tax effect $ -- -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net gain derivative instruments -- -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net unrealized investment gains/(losses): Unrealized holding gains/(losses), net tax effect $ , $ , and $( ) , ( , ) Reclassification adjustment for gains included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) , ( ) ( , ) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Translation adjustments and other ( ) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ , $( ) $ ( ) ============================================================================================================================= The components accumulated other comprehensive were: Millions / June ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net gains derivative instruments $ -- $ Net unrealized investment gains , Translation adjustments and other ( ) ( ) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ ========================================================================================================== Employee Stock and Savings Plans Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares the Company\' common stock may purchased six- month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During , , and , employees purchased million, million, and million shares average prices $ , $ , and $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. Savings Plan The Company has savings plan, which qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Participating employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. The Company contributes fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes, with maximum contribution % participant\' earnings. Matching contributions were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Stock Option Plans The Company has stock option plans for directors, officers, and employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options. Options granted prior generally vest over four and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire after years. Options granted during 2001vest over four and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. June , , options for million shares were vested and million shares were available for future grants under the plans. Stock options outstanding were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Price per Share ------------------------------ Weighted Shares Range Average ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Balance, June , $ - $ $ Granted - Exercised ( ) - Canceled ( ) - ---- Balance, June , - Granted - Exercised ( ) - Canceled ( ) - ---- Balance, June , - Granted - Exercised ( ) - Canceled ( ) - ---- Balance, June , - ========================================================================= For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics outstanding stock options June , were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Outstanding Options Exercisable Options ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Range Remaining Weighted Weighted Exercise Prices Shares Life (Years) Average Price Shares Average Price ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- $ - $ $ $ - - - - - - ============================================================================================== The Company follows Accounting Principles Board Opinion , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees, account for stock option and employee stock purchase plans. alternative method accounting for stock options SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Under SFAS , employee stock options are valued grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and this compensation cost recognized ratably over the vesting period. Had compensation cost for the Company\' stock option and employee stock purchase plans been determined prescribed SFAS , pro forma income statements for , , and would have been follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Year Ended June ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma -------------------------------------------------------------------- Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , , , , Research and development , , , , , , Sales and marketing , , , , , , General and administrative , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Total operating expenses , , , , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Operating income , , , , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) , , , , ( ) ( ) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Income before income taxes , , , , , , Provision for income taxes , , , , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Income before accounting change , , , , , , Cumulative effect accounting change -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ================================================================================================================== Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ================================================================================================================== Basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ ================================================================================================================== Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ ================================================================================================================== The weighted average Black-Scholes value options granted under the stock option plans during , , and was $ , $ , and $ . Value was estimated using weighted average expected life years , years , and years , dividends, volatility ,. , and , and risk-free interest rates %, %, and % , , and . Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding plus the effect outstanding preferred shares using the " -converted" method, assumed net-share settlement common stock structured repurchases, outstanding put warrants using the "reverse treasury stock" method, and outstanding stock options using the "treasury stock" method. The components basic and diluted earnings per share were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Year Ended June ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Income before accounting change $ , $ , $ , Preferred stock dividends -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Net income available for common shareholders $ , $ , $ , ========================================================================================== Weighted average outstanding shares common stock , , , Dilutive effect : Common stock under structured repurchases -- -- Put warrants -- Preferred stock -- Employee stock options ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Common stock and common stock equivalents , , , ========================================================================================== Earnings per share before accounting change: Basic $ $ $ ========================================================================================== Diluted $ $ $ ========================================================================================== Operational Transactions November , Microsoft acquired LinkExchange, Inc., leading provider online marketing services Web site owners and small- and medium-sized businesses. Microsoft paid $ million stock. November , Expedia, Inc. completed initial public offering its common stock. Expedia, which majority-owned Microsoft, leading provider branded online travel services for leisure and small business travelers. Expedia\' financial results and financial condition are consolidated with the operations Microsoft. January , the Company merged with Visio Corporation transaction that was accounted for pooling interests. Microsoft issued million shares the exchange for the outstanding stock Visio. Visio\' assets and liabilities, which were nominal, are included with those Microsoft the merger. Operating results for Visio from periods prior the merger were not material the combined results the two companies. Accordingly, the financial statements for such periods have not been restated. July , the Company acquired interest Telewest Communications plc for approximately $ billion stock. Telewest leading broadband cable communications operator the United Kingdom. April , the Company acquired Great Plains Software, Inc. for approximately $ billion stock. Great Plains leading supplier mid- market business applications. The acquisition was accounted for the purchase method and operating results for Great Plains subsequent the date acquisition are included with those Microsoft. The pro forma impact Great Plains\' operating results prior the date acquisition was not material. Commitments The Company has operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases, millions dollars, are: , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; and thereafter, $ . Microsoft has committed $ million for constructing new buildings and $ million for the manufacturing products. addition, the Company has guaranteed $ million debt its equity investees. Contingencies January , , Microsoft and Sun Microsystems, Inc. ("Sun") entered into Settlement Agreement. Under the terms the public agreement, the parties agreed dismissal with prejudice all pending claims the suit brought Sun against Microsoft October , the . District Court for the Northern District California. Sun also granted Microsoft non-exclusive license continue distribution certain Sun technology for seven year period. Microsoft further agreed pay Sun $ million. The Company defendant . . Microsoft, lawsuit filed the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice (DOJ) and group eighteen state Attorneys General alleging violations the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. After the trial, the District Court entered Findings Fact and Conclusions Law stating that Microsoft had violated Sections and the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. Judgment was entered June , ordering, among other things, the breakup Microsoft into two companies. The Judgment was stayed pending appeal. June , , the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit affirmed part, reversed part, and vacated the Judgment its entirety and remanded the case the District Court for new trial one Section claim and for entry new judgment consistent with its ruling. its ruling, the Court Appeals substantially narrowed the bases liability found the District Court, but affirmed some the District Court\' conclusions that Microsoft had violated Section . September , , the plaintiffs announced that remand they will not ask the Court break Microsoft , that they will seek imposition conduct remedies, and that they will not retry the one Section claim returned the District Court the Court Appeals. August , , Microsoft petitioned the Supreme Court for writ certiorari review the appellate court\' ruling concerning its disqualification the District Court judge. Microsoft may petition the Supreme Court review other aspects the appellate court\' decision after final judgment entered. other ongoing investigations, the DOJ and several state Attorneys General have requested information from Microsoft concerning various issues. addition, the European Commission has instituted proceedings which alleges that Microsoft has failed disclose information that Microsoft competitors claim they need interoperate fully with Windows clients and servers and has engaged discriminatory licensing such technology. The remedies sought, though not fully defined, include mandatory disclosure Microsoft Windows operating system technology and imposition fines. Microsoft denies the European Commission\' allegations and intends contest the proceedings vigorously. large number overcharge class action lawsuits have been initiated against Microsoft. These cases allege that Microsoft has competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications and seek recover alleged overcharges that the complaints contend Microsoft charged for these products. Microsoft believes the claims are without merit and vigorously defending the cases. date, Microsoft has won dismissals all claims for damages indirect purchasers under Federal law and separate state court proceedings. Claims behalf foreign purchasers have also been dismissed. Plaintiffs have appealed most these rulings. While trials other proceedings have been held concerning any liability issues, courts several states have ruled that these cases may proceed class actions, while one court has denied class certification status the claims that state proceeding. Two purported class action employment discrimination cases are pending against Microsoft, Donaldson . Microsoft, class case consolidating three separately filed class action complaints filed October and February Federal court Seattle, Washington, and Jackson . Microsoft, amendment existing case alleging class claims filed January , Federal court Washington, . Microsoft\' motion transfer the Jackson case Federal court Seattle was granted May , . The Donaldson plaintiffs purport represent nationwide class current and former African American and female Microsoft employees and seek injunctive relief, unspecified amount compensatory and punitive damages, and attorneys\' fees. The Jackson plaintiffs purport represent nationwide class current and former African American Microsoft employees and seeks injunctive relief, $ billion compensatory and punitive damages, and attorneys\' fees. Both cases allege that Microsoft\' compensation, evaluation, and promotion policies are discriminatory with respect the plaintiffs violation Title VII the Civil Rights Act and . ( ) . Microsoft denies the allegations and vigorously defending both cases. The Securities and Exchange Commission conducting non-public investigation into the Company\' accounting reserve practices. Microsoft also subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. Management currently believes that resolving these matters will not have material adverse impact the Company\' financial position its results operations. Segment Information Millions / Year Ended June Desktop and Consumer Enterprise Software, Software and Services, and Consumer Commerce Reconciling Services Devices Investments Other Amounts Consolidated ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ $ , ============================================================================================================================== Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ $ , Operating income/(loss) , ( , ) ( ) ( , ) , ============================================================================================================================== Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ ( ) $ , Operating income/(loss) , ( , ) ( ) ( ) , ============================================================================================================================== Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services Revenue: Millions / Year Ended June -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Desktop Applications $ , $ , $ , Desktop Platforms , , , -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Desktop Software , , , Enterprise Software and Services , , , -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services $ , $ , $ , ======================================================================================================== , Microsoft changed the composition its segments reflect the internal reorganization around Microsoft NET, the Company\' vision for the next-generation Internet-based products and services. Except for operating income/(loss), prior year disclosures have been restated for consistent presentation. not practicable discern operating income for for the current segments due previous internal reorganizations. Microsoft has four segments: Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services; Consumer Software, Services, and Devices; Consumer Commerce Investments; and Other. Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services operating segment includes Desktop Applications, Desktop Platforms, and Enterprise Software and Services. Desktop Applications include Microsoft Office; Project; Visio; client access licenses for Windows Server, Windows Server, Exchange, and BackOffice; Microsoft Great Plains; and bCentral. Desktop Platforms include Windows Professional, Windows Workstation, Windows Millennium Edition (Windows ), Windows , and other desktop operating systems. Enterprise Software and Services includes Windows Server and Windows Server operating systems, SQL Server and client access licenses, Exchange Server, developer tools, consulting services, product support services, and training and certification. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices operating segment includes MSN Internet access, MSN network services, WebTV Internet access and services, gaming, learning and productivity software, mobile and wireless devices, and embedded systems. Consumer Commerce Investments operating segment includes Expedia, Inc., the HomeAdvisor online real estate service, and the CarPoint online automotive service. Other includes Hardware and Press. Segment information presented accordance with SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information. This standard based management approach, which requires segmentation based upon the Company\' internal organization and disclosure revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. The Company\' financial reporting systems present various data for management run the business, including internal profit and loss statements ( & ) prepared basis not consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting purposes. Reconciling items for revenue include certain elements unearned revenue and the treatment certain channel inventory amounts and estimates. addition the reconciling items for revenue, reconciling items for operating income/(loss) include general and administrative expenses ($ , million and $ million ), certain research expenses ($ million and $ million ), and other corporate level adjustments. The internal & use accelerated methods depreciation and amortization. Additionally, losses equity investees and minority interest are classified operating income for internal reporting presentations. Revenue attributable . operations includes shipments customers the United States, licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations, and exports finished goods, primarily Asia, Latin America, and Canada. Revenue from . operations totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Revenue from outside the United States, excluding licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations and . exports, totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . single customer accounted for approximately %, %, and % revenue , , and . Long-lived assets totaled $ billion and $ billion the United States and and $ million and $ million other countries and . Subsequent Event July , , USA Networks, Inc. (USA) announced agreement acquire controlling interest Expedia, Inc. through the purchase million shares, approximately % the current outstanding shares. holders more than million Expedia shares elect sell their shares USA, there will pro rata reduction among all those electing shareholders. Microsoft has agreed transfer all its million shares and warrants, subject pro- ration. expected that the transaction will close December , . Quarterly Information ( millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) Quarter Ended --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Revenue ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income ( )( ) , , , , Basic earnings per share ( )( ) Diluted earnings per share ( )( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ( ) For the first three quarters , revenue and cost revenue have been reclassified report Expedia merchant revenue net basis, which represents the amount charged the customer less the amount paid the supplier. ( ) First quarter includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per basic share and $ per diluted share. ( ) Fourth quarter includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments, primarily cable and telecommunication investments. Independent Auditors\' Report -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\' equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. discussed the notes the financial statements, the Company was required adopt Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, effective July , . Deloitte & Touche LLP Seattle, Washington July , (September , the second paragraph Contingencies note) Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. PART III Item . Directors the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Item . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the captions "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" and "Indebtedness Executive Officers" the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed reports Form - during the quarter ended June , . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description -------------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non- Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\' Consent _____________________________ ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . Signatures Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / John . Connors ------------------------------------------- John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title / / William . Gates, III -------------------------------------- Chairman the Board Directors William . Gates, III and Chief Software Architect / / Steven . Ballmer -------------------------------------- Steven . Ballmar Chief Executive Officer / / James . Cash, . -------------------------------------- James . Cash, . Director / / Raymond . Gilmartin -------------------------------------- Raymond . Gilmartin Director / / Ann McLaughlin Korologos -------------------------------------- Ann McLaughlin Korologos Director / / David . Marquardt -------------------------------------- David . Marquardt Director / / . . Reed, . -------------------------------------- . . Reed, . Director / / Jon . Shirley -------------------------------------- Jon . Shirley Director / / John . Connors -------------------------------------- John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': "Properties The Company' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington. The Company constructing three buildings with approximately , square feet space that will occupied the Fall . The Company owns million square feet corporate campus space situated slightly more than acres land and leases approximately million square feet around the Puget Sound region. accommodate expansion needs the Company has option purchase acres land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet additional office space. The Company leases many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. This includes the recent acquisition the Great Plains facilities which totaled , square feet. The Company leases many sites internationally totaling approximately million square feet. The Company' European operations center and localization division leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland. The Company leases , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico and leases , square-foot facility Singapore for its Asia Pacific operations center. The Company has office building space leased the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; United Kingdom campus , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; and Beijing, China , square feet. The Company' facilities are fully used for current operations all segments and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ", 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings See Notes Financial Statements-Contingencies (Item ) for information regarding legal proceedings. ', 'item 4. ': "Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . Executive Officers the Registrant The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates, III Chairman the Board; Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Richard . Belluzzo President; Chief Operating Officer James . Allchin Group Vice President, Platforms Orlando Ayala Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Services Robert . (Robbie) Bach Senior Vice President, Games Douglas . Burgum Senior Vice President, Business Solutions; President, Great Plains Division David . Cole Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Jon Stephan DeVaan Senior Vice President, Division Richard . Emerson Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy Paul Flessner Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Servers Kevin . Johnson Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services Robert . Muglia Group Vice President, Personal Services Group Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy William . Neukom Executive Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services Richard . Rashid Senior Vice President, Research Steven . Sinofsky Senior Vice President, Office Brian Valentine Senior Vice President, Windows David Vaskevitch Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Business Platform Deborah . Willingham Senior Vice President, Human Resources . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman the Board since the Company' incorporation. . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . had been President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . was Senior Vice President, Systems Software from . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Belluzzo was named President and Chief Operating Officer February . had been Group Vice President, Personal Services and Devices since August . joined Microsoft Group Vice President, Consumer and Commerce September . . Belluzzo had been Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Silicon Graphics, Inc. since January . Prior his employment Silicon Graphics, Inc., . Belluzzo was employed the Hewlett-Packard Company for years, serving since Executive Vice President and General Manager the computer organization. . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February , Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division since November , and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Ayala was named Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing, and Services August . had been Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas since February , and before holding that position, was Vice President the developing markets Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. joined Microsoft May Senior Director the Latin America Region. . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Games March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Burgum joined the Company upon Microsoft' acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. April . . Burgum became Great Plains' first outside investor March . was named President Great Plains and subsequently named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. . Cole was named Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . Previously, was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Connors was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer December . had been Vice President, Enterprise since March . . Connors had been Vice President, Information Technology, and Chief Information Officer since July . joined Microsoft January . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa July . had been Vice President, Customer Marketing since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President Microsoft Europe since and General Manager for Microsoft France since . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . DeVaan was named Senior Vice President, Division December . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since September . . DeVaan had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications since . . DeVaan joined Microsoft . . Emerson joined Microsoft November Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy. Prior joining Microsoft, was Managing Director and -head Technology and Telecommunications Advisory Services international investment bank Lazard Freres & . LLC. spent years San Francisco and New York with Lazard and Morgan Stanley, specializing advising clients the technology and telecommunications sectors mergers, acquisitions, and strategic partnerships. . Flessner was named Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Servers December . had been Vice President, Database and Data Access. Since joining the Company, . Flessner' primary responsibilities have been the development Microsoft' database business. assumed responsibility for the engineering Microsoft SQL Server . joined Microsoft . . Johnson was named Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services August . had been Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. . Johnson was named Vice President, Product Support Services July . joined Microsoft . . Muglia was named Group Vice President, Personal Services Group August . had been Group Vice President, Business Productivity since December . was named Senior Vice President, Business Productivity March and was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools February . had been Vice President, Server Applications since and was Vice President, Developer Tools since . joined Microsoft January . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology December . . Neukom was named Executive Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs October . had been Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs since February . joined Microsoft Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs. . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services August . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . Before holding that position, had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Rashid was named Senior Vice President, Research May . had been Vice President, Research since July . joined Microsoft September . . Sinofsky was named Senior Vice President, Office December . had been Vice President, Office since December . . Sinofsky joined the Office team , increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release the desktop suite. joined Microsoft July . . Valentine was named Senior Vice President, Windows December . had been Vice President, Business and Enterprise since March . had been Vice President, Windows since December . Before managing the Windows group, . Valentine managed the server applications division and had been responsible for the Exchange product unit. joined Microsoft . . Vaskevitch was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Business Platform August . was named Senior Vice President, Business Applications March . had been Senior Vice President, Developer since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Distributed Applications Platform. joined Microsoft . . Willingham was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources February . She had been Vice President, Human Resources since April . . Willingham had been Vice President, Business and Enterprise Division Marketing and was responsible for Windows operating system client and server marketing strategy and training, well for providing centralized marketing services for the Consumer Windows Marketing and Streaming Media Marketing teams. She joined Microsoft . PART ", 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters The Company\' common stock traded The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. July , , there were , registered holders record the Company\' common stock. The Company has not paid cash dividends its common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- April , , the Company closed the acquisition substantially all the assets iCommunicate Holding, Inc., Delaware corporation ("iCommunicate"). Promptly thereafter, the Company issued aggregate , its common shares iCommunicate, which were subsequently distributed iCommunicate\' eleven shareholders the liquidation iCommunicate. All the shares issued this transaction were issued non-public offering pursuant exemption from the registration requirements the Securities Act , amended (the " Act"), under Section ( ) the Act. May , , the Company issued aggregate , its common shares pursuant the merger subsidiary the Company with Ensemble Studios Corporation, Delaware corporation ("Ensemble"), owned shareholders. All the shares issued this transaction were issued non-public offering pursuant exemption from the registration requirements the Act, under Section ( ) the Act. The above described sales were made without general solicitation advertising. The Company has filed Registration Statement Form - covering the resale such securities issued pursuant such acquisitions. All net proceeds from the sale such securities will the selling shareholders who offer and sell their shares. The Company has not received and will not receive any proceeds from the sale these common shares other than the assets and certain liabilities iCommunicate and connection with the merger with Ensemble. ', 'item 6. ': "Selected Financial Data Financial Highlights ( millions, except earnings per share) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Year Ended June ( ) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Income before accounting change , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share before accounting change Diluted earnings per share Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Stockholders' equity , , , , , -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ( ) Fiscal year includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per diluted share and $ billion (pre- tax) impairments certain investments, primarily cable and telecommunication investments. ", 'item 7. ': 'Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Results Operations for , , and -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports wide range software products for multitude computing devices. Microsoft software includes scalable operating systems for servers, personal computers (PCs), and intelligent devices; server applications for client server environments; knowledge worker productivity applications; and software development tools. The Company\' online efforts include the MSN network Internet products and services and alliances with companies involved with broadband access and various forms digital interactivity. Microsoft also licenses consumer software programs; sells hardware devices; provides consulting services; trains and certifies system integrators and developers; and researches and develops advanced technologies for future software products. Management\' Discussion and Analysis contains statements that are forward- looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because factors discussed below under "Issues and Uncertainties." Revenue -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company\' revenue growth rate was % fiscal , % fiscal , and % fiscal . Revenue growth fiscal was driven primarily licensing Microsoft Windows Professional, Microsoft SQL Server, and the other NET Enterprise Servers. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices revenue also grew strongly. Partially offsetting those items was flat revenue growth from Windows Millennium Edition (Windows ) and Windows operating systems, reflecting the slowdown consumer shipments and higher mix Windows Professional and Windows Workstation. Revenue growth fiscal was driven strong licensing Microsoft Windows Workstation, Windows Professional, Windows Server, Windows Server, Microsoft Office , and SQL Server. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices revenue also grew strongly. Partially offsetting those items was slower growth from Windows operating systems sold through the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) channel due slow demand for business PCs throughout significant portion fiscal . Revenue growth fiscal reflected the continued adoption Windows operating systems and Microsoft Office. addition, the Company\' estimate for future product returns was reduced $ million fiscal . fiscal , Microsoft made two changes related the ratable recognition revenue for portion its revenue for certain products. American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Modification SOP - , Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect Certain Transactions, requires companies use the average sales price each undelivered element software arrangements unbundle revenue. Prior authoritative accounting guidance allowed comparison the total price differential between licensed product sold through different channels distribution derive the value undelivered elements offered customers acquiring product from one channel but not the other. Upon adoption this new rule the fourth quarter fiscal , the percentages the total arrangement treated unearned decreased. This change reduced the amount Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office sales treated unearned and increased the amount revenue recognized upon shipment. Additionally, part the Company\' long range planning process and review product shipment cycles, was determined that the life cycle Windows should extended from two years three years. Product Revenue Microsoft has four segments: Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services; Consumer Software, Services, and Devices; Consumer Commerce Investments; and Other. The Management Discussion and Analysis presentation revenue differs from that reported under the Company\' Segment Information appearing the Notes Financial Statements because reconciling items are allocated those segments. Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services includes Desktop Applications; Desktop Platforms; and Enterprise Software and Services. Desktop Applications revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop Applications includes revenue from Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Visio; client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server and Windows Server, Exchange, and BackOffice; Microsoft Great Plains; and bCentral. fiscal , revenue from client access licenses increased % reflecting strong licensing growth Windows Server and Windows Server CALs. Office revenue growth was flat during the year. fiscal and , revenue growth from Microsoft Office integrated suites, including the Premium, Professional, Small Business, and Standard Editions were very solid. Desktop Platforms revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Desktop Platforms includes revenue from Windows Professional, Windows Workstation, Windows , Windows , and other desktop operating systems. Fiscal revenue growth reflected the strong adoption Windows Professional, partially offset flat revenue growth from Windows and Windows operating systems, reflecting the slowdown consumer shipments and higher mix Windows Professional and Windows Workstation. fiscal , Desktop Platforms revenue growth was modest due soft demand for business PCs during most the year; slowdown shipments anticipation the post mid-year availability Windows operating systems; and, expected, longer business migration cycle for the newest Windows operating system offerings. fiscal , Windows units licensed through the OEM channel, particularly Windows Workstation, increased strongly over the prior year. Organizational licensing Windows Workstation and Windows also contributed the growth. Enterprise Software and Services revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Enterprise Software and Services includes Enterprise Platforms, Server Applications, Developer Tools and Services, and Enterprise Services. result the continued adoption Microsoft\' NET Enterprise Server offerings fiscal , Server Applications revenue increased % versus the prior year. Enterprise Services revenue, representing consulting and product support services, was % compared fiscal . Enterprise Platforms, which includes Windows Server and Windows Server operating systems, increased % while revenue from Developer Tools and Services was flat with the prior year. fiscal , Enterprise Platforms revenue growth was particularly strong led increased adoption customers Windows Server and Windows Server. Revenue from Server Applications grew strongly, largely due the strong success SQL Server . Software Developer Tools and Services revenue declined, due increased suite licensing versus stand-alone licenses, and the lack release upgrade the Visual Studio development system. fiscal , the revenue growth rate for Windows Server was healthy. Revenue from Server Applications grew strongly, reflecting, part, the release SQL Server . The Visual Studio development system drove healthy Developer Tools and Services revenue growth. Consulting services revenue rose substantially. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices Consumer Software, Services, and Devices revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Consumer Software, Services, and Devices includes MSN Internet access; MSN network service; WebTV Internet access and services; and online games; learning and productivity software; mobile and wireless devices; and embedded systems. fiscal , revenue from MSN network services grew strongly light the decline the online advertising market. MSN Internet access revenue also grew solidly result increased subscriber base, partially offset decline the average revenue per subscriber due larger mix subscribers contracted under rebate programs. Revenue from embedded systems grew strongly from the prior year, while learning and productivity software revenue and and online games revenue declined, reflecting softness the overall consumer market. fiscal , online revenue growth was very strong and reflected higher subscriber totals, offset lower net prices for Internet access subscriptions compared the prior year. Additionally, strong sell-through entertainment software produced robust revenue growth. fiscal , online advertising revenue rose substantially and Internet access revenue increased moderately. Consumer Commerce Investments Consumer Commerce Investments revenue was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Consumer Commerce Investments include Expedia, Inc., the HomeAdvisor online real estate service, and the CarPoint online automotive service. Acquisitions Travelscape com and VacationSpot com Expedia, Inc., and increased product offerings from Expedia led the strong revenue growth fiscal . The increased overall reach all properties led the strong revenue growth fiscal and . July , , USA Networks, Inc. (USA) announced agreement acquire controlling interest Expedia through the purchase million shares, approximately % the current outstanding shares. holders more than million Expedia shares elect sell their shares USA, there will pro rata reduction among all electing shareholders. Microsoft has agreed transfer all its million shares and warrants, subject pro-ration. expected that the transaction will close December , . Other Other revenue was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Other primarily includes Hardware and Microsoft Press. Lower sales gaming devices and other hardware peripherals result weakness the consumer market caused the decline revenue fiscal . Continued success the Company\' new hardware device offerings led the revenue growth fiscal . Revenue from hardware devices and Microsoft Press was relatively flat fiscal . Distribution Channels Microsoft distributes its products primarily through OEM licenses, organizational licenses, online services and products, and retail packaged products. OEM channel revenue represents license fees from original equipment manufacturers who preinstall Microsoft products, primarily PCs. Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing regions: the South Pacific and Americas Region; the Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region; and the Asia Region. Sales organizational licenses and packaged products via these channels are primarily and through distributors and resellers. OEM revenue was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . Although total licenses were impacted slowdown shipments fiscal , the mix the higher priced Windows Professional and Windows Workstation the OEM channel increased substantially resulting higher average revenue per license. The relatively low growth rate fiscal was due lower business shipment growth, especially result the soft demand for business PCs and component shortages for part the year. These issues combined with post mid-year availability Windows Professional resulted lower revenue growth. Average earned revenue per license also declined compared the prior year, due part mix shift the lower- priced Windows operating system reflecting the softness demand for business PCs and lower prices operating systems licensed through certain OEM channel sectors. fiscal , shipment growth coupled with increased penetration higher value -bit operating systems drove the OEM revenue increases. South Pacific and Americas Region revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . fiscal , revenue growth, principally the United States, was led strong licensing Windows Professional and the family NET Enterprise Servers, particularly SQL Server and Exchange Server. Revenue from Enterprise services and MSN subscription and services grew strongly. fiscal , Office integrated suites, Windows Server, online revenue, and SQL Server sales were the primary drivers the revenue growth. Strong retail sales hardware devices and consumer software also contributed the growth over the prior year. Revenue growth was particularly strong Latin America and Australia, moderate Canada, and modest the United States. fiscal , server applications, Windows Server, Windows Workstation, and Microsoft Office all exhibited solid year-over-year growth rates. Organizational licensing activity was strong. Revenue growth was solid the United States and moderate Latin America and the South Pacific. Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . fiscal , weakening local currencies negatively impacted translated revenue compared the prior year. Revenue the region would have increased % foreign exchange rates were constant with those the prior year. Revenue from Windows Professional and the NET Enterprise Server family products was very healthy. fiscal , retail sales Windows operating systems and Office licensing produced moderate growth the region. Growth from SQL Server licensing, new hardware device offerings, and entertainment software was especially strong. Revenue growth, measured constant dollars, was very healthy Germany and Italy, robust the Middle East, and low the United Kingdom. fiscal , all major products grew strongly over the prior year. Revenue growth was solid the United Kingdom, Germany, and France, and was particularly high Sweden, the Netherlands, and Spain. Asia Region revenue was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . fiscal , the region\' growth rate reflected strong revenue from localized versions Microsoft Office and Microsoft Office , especially the Office Personal suite. The growth was also attributable Windows Professional and NET Server applications licensing. Revenue growth was particularly strong Korea and the greater China region, resulting from advantageous economic conditions well successful anti-piracy efforts. fiscal , the region\' growth rate reflected strong performance resulting from improved local economic conditions. Revenue growth was also influenced robust growth localized versions Microsoft Office , especially the Office Personal Edition sold Japan, Windows platform and server licensing, and strong adoption SQL Server. Revenue grew strongly nearly all countries the Asia region. fiscal , Japan, Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, and Southeast Asia had moderate revenue growth, while revenue grew very strongly Korea. The Company\' operating results are affected foreign exchange rates. Approximately %, %, and % the Company\' revenue was collected foreign currencies during , , and . Since portion local currency revenue hedged and much the Company\' international manufacturing costs and operating expenses are also incurred local currencies, the impact exchange rates partially mitigated. Operating Expenses -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Cost Revenue Cost revenue percent revenue was % , % , and % . fiscal , higher support and service costs associated with the MSN Internet access and MSN network services were partially offset the lower relative costs associated with organizational licensing and the drop the mix packaged product versus the prior year. Cost revenue fiscal reflected lower costs associated with WebTV Networks\' operations, partially offset the growth hardware peripherals costs. Cost revenue percentage revenue decreased fiscal primarily due the trend mix shift OEM and organizational licenses. Additionally, cost revenue was positively impacted reduction estimates obsolete inventory and other manufacturing costs $ million. Research and Development Microsoft continued invest heavily the future funding research and development ( & ). fiscal , the increase & expense was the result higher headcount-related costs and investments new product initiatives. The increase fiscal was driven primarily higher headcount-related costs. The increase fiscal reflected higher development headcount- related costs offset lower infrastructure and third-party development costs. Sales and Marketing fiscal , sales and marketing expenses percentage revenue increased due higher relative headcount-related costs, higher marketing and sales expenses associated with MSN, the Microsoft Agility advertising campaign, and other new sales initiatives. fiscal , sales and marketing expenses percentage revenue increased due higher relative marketing costs associated with new product releases and online marketing. fiscal , sales and marketing expense percentage revenue decreased due lower relative sales expenses and lower relative marketing costs. General and Administrative fiscal , general and administrative costs decreased due charge related the settlement the lawsuit with Caldera, Inc. recorded fiscal . Excluding this charge, general and administrative expenses fiscal increased from the prior year due higher headcount-related costs and legal fees. For fiscal , besides the settlement the lawsuit, general and administrative expenses also reflected increased legal fees and certain employee stock option-related expenses. The increase fiscal year was attributable higher legal fees, settlement costs, and headcount-related costs necessary support the Company\' expanding operations. Non-operating Items, Investment Income/(Loss), and Income Taxes -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Losses equity investees and other incorporates Microsoft\' share income loss from the MSNBC entities, Avanade, Wireless Knowledge, StarBand Communications, and other investments accounted for using the equity method. The increase losses equity investees and other fiscal reflects increase the number such investments during the year. fiscal and , losses equity investees decreased reflecting smaller losses from the MSNBC entities. fiscal , the Company reported investment loss $ million, decrease investment income $ billion versus fiscal . Net recognized losses were $ billion fiscal , reflecting $ billion impairments certain investments, primarily the cable and telecommunication industries, and $ million net losses attributable derivative instruments. These losses were partially offset higher net gains from the sales investments, including gain from Microsoft\' investment Titus Communications (which was merged with Jupiter Telecommunications) and the closing the sale Transpoint CheckFree Holdings Corp. Interest and dividend income increased $ million from the prior year, reflecting larger investment portfolio. fiscal years and , investment income increased primarily result larger investment portfolio generated cash from operations coupled with realized gains from the sale securities. The effective tax rate for fiscal was %. The effective tax rate for fiscal was %. Excluding the impact the gain the sale Softimage, Inc., the effective tax rate for fiscal was %. Accounting Change -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Effective July , , Microsoft adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. All derivatives, whether designated hedging relationships not, are required recorded the balance sheet fair value. the derivative designated fair value hedge, the changes the fair value the derivative and the hedged item are recognized earnings. the derivative designated cash flow hedge, changes the fair value the derivative are recorded other comprehensive income (OCI) and are recognized the income statement when the hedged item affects earnings. The adoption SFAS resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax reduction OCI $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset the reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Financial Condition -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company\' cash and short-term investment portfolio totaled $ billion June , . The portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Microsoft\' investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. Cash flow from operations was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable the growth revenue and other changes working capital, partially offset the decrease the stock option income tax benefit, reflecting decreased stock option exercises employees. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase primarily reflects the repurchase put warrants fiscal , compared the sale put warrants the prior fiscal year, well increase common stock repurchased. All outstanding put warrants were either retired exercised during fiscal . During fiscal , the Company repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. fiscal , cash flow from operations was $ billion, decrease $ million from the prior year, reflecting working capital changes partially offset the increase the stock option income tax benefit. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year, reflecting increase common stock repurchased versus the prior year. During fiscal , the Company repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. fiscal , cash flow from operations was $ billion, increase $ billion from the prior year, reflecting the growth revenue and the increase the stock option income tax benefit. Cash used for financing was $ million fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. During fiscal , the Company repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year, reflecting the growth the investment portfolio. Microsoft has material long-term debt. Stockholders\' equity June , was $ billion. Microsoft will continue invest sales, marketing, and product support infrastructure. Additionally, research and development activities will include investments existing and advanced areas technology, including using cash acquire technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for & , sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . Cash will also used for strategic opportunities. addition, cash will used repurchase common stock provide shares for employee stock option and purchase plans. Since fiscal , Microsoft has repurchased million common shares while billion shares were issued under the Company\' employee stock option and purchase plans. The market value all outstanding stock options was $ billion June , . During December , Microsoft issued million shares % convertible exchangeable preferred stock. The Company\' convertible preferred stock matured December , . Each preferred share was converted into common shares. Management believes existing cash and short-term investments together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements. The Company\' cash and short-term investments are available for strategic investments, mergers and acquisitions, and other potential large-scale needs and fund the share repurchase program. Microsoft has not paid cash dividends its common stock. Recently Issued Accounting Standards -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS , Business Combinations, and SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separately from goodwill. SFAS will require that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. SFAS required applied starting with fiscal years beginning after December , , with early application permitted certain circumstances. The Company plans early adopt SFAS fiscal and does not expect any impairment goodwill upon adoption. Goodwill amortization was approximately $ million fiscal and approximately $ million fiscal . Issues and Uncertainties -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- While Microsoft management optimistic about the Company\' long-term prospects, the following issues and uncertainties, among others, should considered evaluating its growth outlook. Rapid Technological Change and Competition Rapid change, uncertainty due new and emerging technologies, and fierce competition characterize the software industry, which means that Microsoft\' market position always risk. Microsoft\' ability maintain its current market share may depend upon the Company\' ability satisfy customer requirements, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products and achieve market acceptance such products. This process grows more challenging the pace change continues accelerate. Open source software, new computing devices, new microprocessor architectures, the Internet, and Web-based computing models are among the competitive challenges the Company must meet. Microsoft does not successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products market timely and cost-efficient manner, the Company\' business growth will suffer and demand for its products will decrease. Future Initiatives The Company plans continue make significant investments software research and development including Microsoft NET, "HailStorm", Xbox, wireless technologies, digital devices, television, and small business. anticipated that these investments research and development will increase over historical spending levels. Significant revenue from these product opportunities may not achieved for number years, all. Growth Rates The nature the marketplace changing ways that may reduce Microsoft\' software sales and revenue growth. Overall market demand for PCs can significantly impact Microsoft\' revenue growth. Recently, manufacturers have sought reach more consumers developing and producing lower cost PCs - PCs that come without pre-installed software contain software with reduced functionality. addition the influx low-cost PCs, market for handheld computing and communication devices has developed. While these devices are not powerful versatile PCs, they threaten erode sales growth the market for PCs with pre-installed software. This may affect Microsoft\' revenue growth because manufacturers may choose not install Microsoft software these low-cost PCs consumers may purchase alternative intelligent devices that not use Microsoft software. These lower-priced devices require Microsoft provide lower-priced software with subset the original functionality. result, the Company may generate less revenue from the sale software produced for these devices than from the sale software for PCs. Product Development The software industry inherently complex. New products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new product releases significant problems creating new products could damage Microsoft\' business. The Company anticipates that Windows and Xbox will released fiscal . Delays either product may adversely affect revenue and net income. Prices The competitive factors described above may require Microsoft lower product prices meet competition, reducing the Company\' revenue and net income. Earnings Process increasingly higher percentage the Company\' revenue subject ratable recognition, which impacts the timing revenue and earnings recognition. Ratable revenue recognition may required for additional products, depending specific license terms and conditions. Also, maintenance and new subscription programs are increasing popularity. Employee Compensation Microsoft employees currently receive salaries, incentive bonuses, other benefits, and stock options. New government regulations, poor stock price performance, other factors could diminish the value the option program current and prospective employees and require the Company pay higher salaries and other cash compensation. International Operations Microsoft develops and sells products throughout the world. The prices the Company\' products countries outside the United States are generally higher than the Company\' prices the United States because the cost incurred localizing software for non- . markets. The costs producing and selling the Company\' products these countries are also higher. Pressure globalize Microsoft\' pricing structure might require that the Company reduce the sales price its software other countries, even though the costs the software continue higher than the United States. Unfavorable changes software "piracy" trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region; difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; and potential adverse foreign tax consequences; among other factors, could also have impact the Company\' business and results operations outside the United States. Intellectual Property Rights Microsoft diligently defends its intellectual property rights, but unlicensed copying software represents loss revenue the Company. While this adversely affects . revenue, revenue loss even more significant outside the United States, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Throughout the world, Microsoft actively educates consumers the benefits licensing genuine products and educates lawmakers the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued efforts may not affect revenue positively. Litigation Litigation regarding intellectual property rights, patents, and copyrights occurs the software industry. addition, there are government regulation and investigation risks along with other general corporate legal risks. The Company defendant lawsuit filed the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice and group eighteen state Attorneys General alleging violations the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. After the trial, the District Court entered Findings Fact and Conclusions Law stating that Microsoft had violated Sections and the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. Judgment was entered June , ordering, among other things, the breakup Microsoft into two companies. The Judgment was stayed pending appeal. June , , the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit affirmed part, reversed part, and vacated the Judgment its entirety and remanded the case the District Court for new trial one Section claim and for entry new judgment consistent with its ruling. its ruling, the Court Appeals substantially narrowed the bases liability found the District Court, but affirmed some the District Court\' conclusions that Microsoft had violated Section . September , , the plaintiffs announced that remand they will not ask the Court break Microsoft , that they will seek imposition conduct remedies, and that they will not retry the one Section claim returned the District Court the Court Appeals. August , , Microsoft petitioned the Supreme Court for writ certiorari review the appellate court\' ruling concerning its disqualification the District Court judge. Microsoft may petition the Supreme Court review other aspects the appellate court\' decision after final judgment entered. response the Court Appeal\' decision, Microsoft has modified the terms its agreements with computer manufacturers permit them remove Internet Explorer icons from Windows when the manufacturer wants promote alternative browser, and modifying other provisions the agreements. While the Company cannot predict with certainty the final outcome this matter, its resolution may result additional changes the Company\' business practices and could affect how the Company develops and markets new products and services. addition, while the Court Appeals ruling vacated the remedies portion the Judgment its entirety, possible the District Court could enter new judgment providing for certain remedies that would have material adverse effect the Company the Company cannot obtain relief from such provisions appeal. large number antitrust class action lawsuits have been initiated against Microsoft. These cases allege that Microsoft has competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications and seek recover alleged overcharges that the complaints contend Microsoft charged for these products. Although Microsoft believes the claims are without merit and vigorously defending the cases, the Company cannot predict with certainty the outcome these lawsuits. Future Growth Rate The revenue growth rate may not approach the level attained prior years. Because the fixed nature significant portion operating expenses, coupled with the possibility slower revenue growth, operating margins may decrease from those . addition, with the anticipated introduction Xbox fiscal , cost revenue percentage revenue may increase versus prior years. ', 'item 7a. ': "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The Company exposed foreign currency, interest rate, and securities price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact the Company' results operations and financial position. The Company hedges the exposure accounts receivable and portion anticipated revenue foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. The Company monitors its foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness its foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed income securities are subject interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. The Company routinely uses options hedge its exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Many securities held the Company' equity and other investments portfolio are subject price risk. The Company uses options hedge its price risk certain highly volatile equity securities. The Company uses value- -risk (VAR) model estimate and quantify its market risks. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. Assumptions applied the VAR model June , and June , include the following: normal market conditions; Monte Carlo modeling with , simulated market price paths; % confidence interval; and -day estimated loss fair value for each market risk category. Accordingly, % the time the estimated - day loss fair value would nominal for foreign currency denominated investments and accounts receivable June , and June , , and would not exceed $ million and $ million June , and June , for interest-sensitive investments $ billion and $ million June , and June , for equity securities. ", 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Income Statements ( millions, except earnings per share) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Year Ended June --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total operating expenses , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Operating income , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) , , ( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Income before accounting change , , , Cumulative effect accounting change (net income taxes $ ) -- -- ( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net income $ , $ , $ , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Basic earnings per share: Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change -- -- ( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- $ $ $ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diluted earnings per share: Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change -- -- ( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- $ $ $ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diluted , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- See accompanying notes. Balance Sheets ( millions) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- June ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable , , Deferred income taxes , , Other , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Other assets , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total assets $ , $ , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Liabilities and stockholders\' equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation Income taxes , Unearned revenue , , Other , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total current liabilities , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deferred income taxes , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Common stock and paid- capital--shares authorized , ; shares issued and outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ , and $ , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total stockholders\' equity , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity $ , $ , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- See accompanying notes. Cash Flows Statements ( millions) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Year Ended June --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax -- -- Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , Net recognized (gains)/losses investments ( ) ( , ) , Stock option income tax benefits , , , Deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities , ( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net cash from operations , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sales/(repurchases) put warrants ( , ) Preferred stock dividends ( ) ( ) -- Other, net -- -- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net cash used for financing ( ) ( , ) ( , ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Investing Additions property and equipment ( ) ( ) ( , ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net cash used for investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net change cash and equivalents , ( ) ( ) Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning year , , , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Cash and equivalents, end year $ , $ , $ , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- See accompanying notes. Stockholders\' Equity Statements ( millions) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Year Ended June ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Convertible preferred stock Balance, beginning year $ $ $ -- Conversion preferred common stock -- ( ) -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Balance, end year -- -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning year , , , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Sales/(repurchases) put warrants ( , ) Stock option income tax benefits , , , Other, net ( ) -- ( ) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Balance, end year , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Retained earnings Balance, beginning year , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Cumulative effect accounting change -- -- ( ) Net gains derivative instruments -- -- Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) , ( ) ( , ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Comprehensive income , , , Preferred stock dividends ( ) ( ) -- Immaterial pooling interests -- -- Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Balance, end year , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Total stockholders\' equity $ , $ , $ , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ See accompanying notes. Notes Financial Statements Accounting Policies Accounting Principles The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with generally accepted accounting principles the United States. Principles Consolidation The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which Microsoft owns least % the voting securities are accounted for using the equity method, except for investments which the Company not able exercise significant influence over the investee, which case, the cost method accounting used. Issuances shares subsidiary are accounted for capital transactions. Estimates and Assumptions Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include provisions for returns, concessions and bad debts; and the length product life cycles and buildings\' lives. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited other comprehensive income. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Revenue Recognition Revenue from products licensed original equipment manufacturers recorded when OEMs ship licensed products while revenue from certain license programs recorded when the software has been delivered and the customer invoiced. Revenue from packaged product sales and through distributors and resellers recorded when related products are shipped. Maintenance and subscription revenue recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue attributable undelivered elements, including technical support and Internet browser technologies, based the average sales price those elements and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the product\' life cycle. When the revenue recognition criteria required for distributor and reseller arrangements are not met, revenue recognized payments are received. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for certain products, are accrued. Provisions are recorded for returns, concessions, and bad debts. Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes direct costs produce and distribute product and direct costs provide online services, consulting, product support, and training and certification system integrators. Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed, does not materially affect the Company. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million , $ billion , and $ billion . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect this difference reported deferred income taxes. Financial Instruments The Company considers all liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Short-term investments generally mature between three months and six years from the purchase date. All cash and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses are reflected other comprehensive income (OCI). Equity and other investments include debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary losses) are reflected other comprehensive income. All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. Microsoft lends certain fixed income and equity securities enhance investment income. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. The fair value collateral that Microsoft permitted sell repledge was $ million June , . There was collateral that Microsoft was permitted sell repledge June , . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. The Company employs systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment its investments. the event that the cost investment exceeds its fair value, the Company evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost; the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors; and the Company\' intent and ability hold the investment. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. , the Company recognized $ billion impairments certain investments, primarily the cable and telecommunication industries. The Company uses derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, security price, and interest rate risks. The Company\' objectives for holding derivatives are minimize these risks using the most effective methods eliminate reduce the impact these exposures. Foreign Currency Risk --------------------- Certain forecasted transactions and assets are exposed foreign currency risk. The Company monitors its foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness its foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Options used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future are designated cash flow hedging instruments. Options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies. Securities Price Risk --------------------- Strategic equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, the Company uses and designates options hedge fair values and cash flows certain equity securities. The security, forecasted sale thereof, selected for hedging determined market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Once established, the hedges are not dynamically managed traded, and are generally not removed until maturity. Interest Rate Risk ------------------ Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. The Company routinely uses options, not designated hedging instruments, hedge its exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Other Derivatives ----------------- addition, the Company may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. For options designated either fair value cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness. Property and Equipment Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the software three years. Intangible Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from three seven years. The Company periodically evaluates the recoverability intangible assets and takes into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Business Combinations, and SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separately from goodwill. SFAS will require that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. SFAS required applied starting with fiscal years beginning after December , , with early application permitted certain circumstances. The Company plans early adopt SFAS fiscal and does not expect any impairment goodwill upon adoption. Goodwill amortization was approximately $ million fiscal and approximately $ million fiscal . Reclassifications Certain reclassifications have been made for consistent presentation. Accounting Change Effective July , , the Company adopted SFAS , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. All derivatives, whether designated hedging relationships not, are required recorded the balance sheet fair value. the derivative designated fair value hedge, the changes the fair value the derivative and the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings. the derivative designated cash flow hedge, the effective portions changes the fair value the derivative are recorded other comprehensive income and are recognized the income statement when the hedged item affects earnings. Ineffective portions changes the fair value cash flow hedges are recognized earnings. The adoption SFAS July , , resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax reduction OCI $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. The net derivative losses included OCI July , were reclassified into earnings during the twelve months ended June , . The change accounting from the adoption SFAS did not materially affect net income . Unearned Revenue portion Microsoft\' revenue earned ratably over the product life cycle , the case subscriptions, over the period the license agreement. End users receive certain elements the Company\' products over period time. These elements include items such browser technologies and technical support. Consequently, Microsoft\' earned revenue reflects the recognition the fair value these elements over the product\' life cycle. Upon adoption American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Modification SOP - , With Respect Certain Transactions, during the fourth quarter fiscal , the Company was required change the methodology attributing the fair value undelivered elements. The percentages undelivered elements relation the total arrangement decreased, reducing the amount Windows and Office revenue treated unearned, and increasing the amount revenue recognized upon shipment. The percentage revenue recognized ratably decreased from range % % range approximately % % Windows desktop operating systems. For desktop applications, the percentage decreased from approximately % range approximately % %. The ranges depend the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. addition, the fourth quarter fiscal , the Company extended the life cycle Windows from two three years based upon management\' review product shipment cycles. Product life cycles are currently estimated months for desktop applications. The Company also sells subscriptions certain products via maintenance and certain organizational license agreements. June , and , Desktop Applications unearned revenue was $ billion and $ billion. Desktop Platforms unearned revenue was $ billion and $ billion. Enterprise Software and Services unearned revenue was $ million and $ million. Unearned revenue associated with Consumer Software, Services, and Devices, and Other was $ million and $ million June , and . Cash and Short-Term Investments --------------------------------------------------------------- Millions / June --------------------------------------------------------------- Cash and equivalents: Cash $ $ , Commercial paper , Certificates deposit , . government and agency securities Corporate notes and bonds , Municipal securities -- --------------------------------------------------------------- Cash and equivalents , , --------------------------------------------------------------- Short-term investments: Commercial paper . government and agency securities , , Corporate notes and bonds , , Municipal securities , , Certificates deposit --------------------------------------------------------------- Short-term investments , , --------------------------------------------------------------- Cash and short-term investments $ , $ , =============================================================== June , and , cost approximated market for all classifications cash and short-term investments. Realized gains and (losses) from cash and short-term investments were $ million and $( ) million , $ million and $( ) million , and $ million and $( ) million . Property and Equipment ---------------------------------------------------------------- Millions / June ---------------------------------------------------------------- Land $ $ Buildings , , Computer equipment and software , , Other , ---------------------------------------------------------------- Property and equipment-- cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) ---------------------------------------------------------------- Property and equipment--net $ , $ , ================================================================ During , , and , depreciation expense, which the majority related computer equipment, was $ million, $ million, and $ million. Equity and Other Investments Cost Unrealized Unrealized Recorded Millions / June , Basis Gains Losses Basis --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ $ -- $ Between and years ( ) Between and years ( ) Beyond years , -- ( ) , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Debt securities recorded market , ( , ) , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Common stock and warrants , , ( , ) , Preferred stock , -- -- , Other investments -- -- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Equity and other investments $ , $ , $( , ) $ , =============================================================================================================== Cost Unrealized Unrealized Recorded Millions / June , Basis Gains Losses Basis --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ -- $ -- $ Between and years ( ) Between and years -- ( ) Beyond years , -- ( ) , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Debt securities recorded market , ( ) , --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Common stock and warrants , , ( ) , Preferred stock -- -- Other investments -- -- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Equity and other investments $ , $ , $( , ) $ , =============================================================================================================== Debt securities include corporate and government notes and bonds and derivative securities. Debt securities maturing beyond years are composed entirely & % convertible preferred debt with contractual maturity years. The debt convertible into & common stock after December , , may redeemed & upon satisfaction certain conditions after June , . Equity securities that are restricted for more than one year not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , and , the estimated fair value these investments excess their recorded basis was $ billion and $ million, based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. Realized gains and (losses) from equity and other investments (excluding impairments discussed previously) were $ million and $( ) million , $ billion and $( ) million , and $ billion and $( ) million . Derivatives For the twelve months ended June , , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million gain for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million loss for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During the twelve months ended June , , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). The derivative losses reclassified investment income/(loss) were offset gains the item being hedged. The Company estimates that $ million net derivative gains included other comprehensive income will reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. For instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS , had impact earnings for the twelve months ended June , . fair value hedges cash flow hedges were derecognized discontinued for the twelve months ended June , . Investment Income/(Loss) The components investment income/(loss) are follows: Millions / Year Ended June ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dividends $ $ $ Interest , , , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments , ( , ) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Investment income/(loss) $ , $ , $ ( ) ==================================================================================================== Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted : Millions / Year Ended June ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Current taxes: . and state $ , $ , $ , International ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes ( ) ( ) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , ==================================================================================================== . and international components income before income taxes were: Millions / Year Ended June ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- . $ , $ , $ , International , , , ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , ==================================================================================================== , the effective tax rate was %, excluding the impact the gain the sale Softimage, Inc. , the effective tax rate was %, and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for tax credits and % increase for other items. , the effective tax rate was %, and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for tax credits and % increase for other items. The components the differences between the . statutory tax rate and the Company\' effective tax rate were not significant. Deferred income taxes were: ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Millions / June ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deferred income tax assets: Revenue items $ , $ , Expense items , , ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deferred income tax assets , , ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deferred income tax liabilities: Unrealized gain investments ( ) ( ) International earnings ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deferred income tax liabilities $( , ) $( , ) ==================================================================================================== During fiscal , the . Tax Court issued adverse ruling which being appealed the 9th Circuit Court Appeals for taxes assessed and . Income taxes, except for and assessments, have been settled with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for all years through . The IRS examining the Company\' and . income tax returns. Management believes any adjustments which may required will not material the financial statements. Income taxes paid were $ million , $ million , and $ billion . Convertible Preferred Stock During , Microsoft issued million shares % convertible exchangeable principal-protected preferred stock. The Company\' convertible preferred stock matured December , . Each preferred share was converted into common shares. Common Stock Shares common stock outstanding were follows: Millions / Year Ended June ------------------------------------------------------------------- Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) ------------------------------------------------------------------- Balance, end year , , , =================================================================== Repurchase Program The Company repurchases its common shares the open market provide shares for issuance employees under stock option and stock purchase plans. During , the Company executed two forward settlement structured repurchase agreements with independent third party totaling million shares stock and paid cash for portion the purchase price. , the Company settled the agreements returning million shares stock, based upon the stock price the date settlement. The timing and method settlement were the discretion the Company. The differential between the cash paid and the price Microsoft common stock the date the agreement was originally reflected common stock and paid- capital. , the Company entered into structured stock repurchase transaction giving the right acquire million its shares ( million shares October and million shares June ) exchange for -front net payment $ million. Put Warrants enhance its stock repurchase program, Microsoft sold put warrants independent third parties. These put warrants entitled the holders sell shares Microsoft common stock the Company certain dates specified prices. the third quarter fiscal , the Company issued million shares settle portion the outstanding put warrants. During fiscal , all the remaining outstanding put warrants were either retired exercised. Other Comprehensive Income The changes the components other comprehensive income were follows: Millions / Year Ended June ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax effect $( ) $ -- $ -- $ ( ) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net gain derivative instruments: Unrealized gains, net tax effect $ -- -- Reclassification adjustment for losses included net income, net tax effect $ -- -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net gain derivative instruments -- -- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net unrealized investment gains/(losses): Unrealized holding gains/(losses), net tax effect $ , $ , and $( ) , ( , ) Reclassification adjustment for gains included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) , ( ) ( , ) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Translation adjustments and other ( ) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ , $( ) $ ( ) ============================================================================================================================= The components accumulated other comprehensive were: Millions / June ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net gains derivative instruments $ -- $ Net unrealized investment gains , Translation adjustments and other ( ) ( ) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ ========================================================================================================== Employee Stock and Savings Plans Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares the Company\' common stock may purchased six- month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During , , and , employees purchased million, million, and million shares average prices $ , $ , and $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. Savings Plan The Company has savings plan, which qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Participating employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. The Company contributes fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes, with maximum contribution % participant\' earnings. Matching contributions were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Stock Option Plans The Company has stock option plans for directors, officers, and employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options. Options granted prior generally vest over four and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire after years. Options granted during 2001vest over four and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. June , , options for million shares were vested and million shares were available for future grants under the plans. Stock options outstanding were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Price per Share ------------------------------ Weighted Shares Range Average ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Balance, June , $ - $ $ Granted - Exercised ( ) - Canceled ( ) - ---- Balance, June , - Granted - Exercised ( ) - Canceled ( ) - ---- Balance, June , - Granted - Exercised ( ) - Canceled ( ) - ---- Balance, June , - ========================================================================= For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics outstanding stock options June , were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Outstanding Options Exercisable Options ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Range Remaining Weighted Weighted Exercise Prices Shares Life (Years) Average Price Shares Average Price ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- $ - $ $ $ - - - - - - ============================================================================================== The Company follows Accounting Principles Board Opinion , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees, account for stock option and employee stock purchase plans. alternative method accounting for stock options SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Under SFAS , employee stock options are valued grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and this compensation cost recognized ratably over the vesting period. Had compensation cost for the Company\' stock option and employee stock purchase plans been determined prescribed SFAS , pro forma income statements for , , and would have been follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts Year Ended June ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma -------------------------------------------------------------------- Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , , , , Research and development , , , , , , Sales and marketing , , , , , , General and administrative , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Total operating expenses , , , , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Operating income , , , , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) , , , , ( ) ( ) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Income before income taxes , , , , , , Provision for income taxes , , , , , , ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Income before accounting change , , , , , , Cumulative effect accounting change -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ================================================================================================================== Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ================================================================================================================== Basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ ================================================================================================================== Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ ================================================================================================================== The weighted average Black-Scholes value options granted under the stock option plans during , , and was $ , $ , and $ . Value was estimated using weighted average expected life years , years , and years , dividends, volatility ,. , and , and risk-free interest rates %, %, and % , , and . Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding plus the effect outstanding preferred shares using the " -converted" method, assumed net-share settlement common stock structured repurchases, outstanding put warrants using the "reverse treasury stock" method, and outstanding stock options using the "treasury stock" method. The components basic and diluted earnings per share were follows: Millions, Except Per Share Amounts ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Year Ended June ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Income before accounting change $ , $ , $ , Preferred stock dividends -- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Net income available for common shareholders $ , $ , $ , ========================================================================================== Weighted average outstanding shares common stock , , , Dilutive effect : Common stock under structured repurchases -- -- Put warrants -- Preferred stock -- Employee stock options ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Common stock and common stock equivalents , , , ========================================================================================== Earnings per share before accounting change: Basic $ $ $ ========================================================================================== Diluted $ $ $ ========================================================================================== Operational Transactions November , Microsoft acquired LinkExchange, Inc., leading provider online marketing services Web site owners and small- and medium-sized businesses. Microsoft paid $ million stock. November , Expedia, Inc. completed initial public offering its common stock. Expedia, which majority-owned Microsoft, leading provider branded online travel services for leisure and small business travelers. Expedia\' financial results and financial condition are consolidated with the operations Microsoft. January , the Company merged with Visio Corporation transaction that was accounted for pooling interests. Microsoft issued million shares the exchange for the outstanding stock Visio. Visio\' assets and liabilities, which were nominal, are included with those Microsoft the merger. Operating results for Visio from periods prior the merger were not material the combined results the two companies. Accordingly, the financial statements for such periods have not been restated. July , the Company acquired interest Telewest Communications plc for approximately $ billion stock. Telewest leading broadband cable communications operator the United Kingdom. April , the Company acquired Great Plains Software, Inc. for approximately $ billion stock. Great Plains leading supplier mid- market business applications. The acquisition was accounted for the purchase method and operating results for Great Plains subsequent the date acquisition are included with those Microsoft. The pro forma impact Great Plains\' operating results prior the date acquisition was not material. Commitments The Company has operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases, millions dollars, are: , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; and thereafter, $ . Microsoft has committed $ million for constructing new buildings and $ million for the manufacturing products. addition, the Company has guaranteed $ million debt its equity investees. Contingencies January , , Microsoft and Sun Microsystems, Inc. ("Sun") entered into Settlement Agreement. Under the terms the public agreement, the parties agreed dismissal with prejudice all pending claims the suit brought Sun against Microsoft October , the . District Court for the Northern District California. Sun also granted Microsoft non-exclusive license continue distribution certain Sun technology for seven year period. Microsoft further agreed pay Sun $ million. The Company defendant . . Microsoft, lawsuit filed the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice (DOJ) and group eighteen state Attorneys General alleging violations the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. After the trial, the District Court entered Findings Fact and Conclusions Law stating that Microsoft had violated Sections and the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. Judgment was entered June , ordering, among other things, the breakup Microsoft into two companies. The Judgment was stayed pending appeal. June , , the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit affirmed part, reversed part, and vacated the Judgment its entirety and remanded the case the District Court for new trial one Section claim and for entry new judgment consistent with its ruling. its ruling, the Court Appeals substantially narrowed the bases liability found the District Court, but affirmed some the District Court\' conclusions that Microsoft had violated Section . September , , the plaintiffs announced that remand they will not ask the Court break Microsoft , that they will seek imposition conduct remedies, and that they will not retry the one Section claim returned the District Court the Court Appeals. August , , Microsoft petitioned the Supreme Court for writ certiorari review the appellate court\' ruling concerning its disqualification the District Court judge. Microsoft may petition the Supreme Court review other aspects the appellate court\' decision after final judgment entered. other ongoing investigations, the DOJ and several state Attorneys General have requested information from Microsoft concerning various issues. addition, the European Commission has instituted proceedings which alleges that Microsoft has failed disclose information that Microsoft competitors claim they need interoperate fully with Windows clients and servers and has engaged discriminatory licensing such technology. The remedies sought, though not fully defined, include mandatory disclosure Microsoft Windows operating system technology and imposition fines. Microsoft denies the European Commission\' allegations and intends contest the proceedings vigorously. large number overcharge class action lawsuits have been initiated against Microsoft. These cases allege that Microsoft has competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications and seek recover alleged overcharges that the complaints contend Microsoft charged for these products. Microsoft believes the claims are without merit and vigorously defending the cases. date, Microsoft has won dismissals all claims for damages indirect purchasers under Federal law and separate state court proceedings. Claims behalf foreign purchasers have also been dismissed. Plaintiffs have appealed most these rulings. While trials other proceedings have been held concerning any liability issues, courts several states have ruled that these cases may proceed class actions, while one court has denied class certification status the claims that state proceeding. Two purported class action employment discrimination cases are pending against Microsoft, Donaldson . Microsoft, class case consolidating three separately filed class action complaints filed October and February Federal court Seattle, Washington, and Jackson . Microsoft, amendment existing case alleging class claims filed January , Federal court Washington, . Microsoft\' motion transfer the Jackson case Federal court Seattle was granted May , . The Donaldson plaintiffs purport represent nationwide class current and former African American and female Microsoft employees and seek injunctive relief, unspecified amount compensatory and punitive damages, and attorneys\' fees. The Jackson plaintiffs purport represent nationwide class current and former African American Microsoft employees and seeks injunctive relief, $ billion compensatory and punitive damages, and attorneys\' fees. Both cases allege that Microsoft\' compensation, evaluation, and promotion policies are discriminatory with respect the plaintiffs violation Title VII the Civil Rights Act and . ( ) . Microsoft denies the allegations and vigorously defending both cases. The Securities and Exchange Commission conducting non-public investigation into the Company\' accounting reserve practices. Microsoft also subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. Management currently believes that resolving these matters will not have material adverse impact the Company\' financial position its results operations. Segment Information Millions / Year Ended June Desktop and Consumer Enterprise Software, Software and Services, and Consumer Commerce Reconciling Services Devices Investments Other Amounts Consolidated ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ $ , ============================================================================================================================== Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ $ , Operating income/(loss) , ( , ) ( ) ( , ) , ============================================================================================================================== Revenue $ , $ , $ $ $ ( ) $ , Operating income/(loss) , ( , ) ( ) ( ) , ============================================================================================================================== Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services Revenue: Millions / Year Ended June -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Desktop Applications $ , $ , $ , Desktop Platforms , , , -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Desktop Software , , , Enterprise Software and Services , , , -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services $ , $ , $ , ======================================================================================================== , Microsoft changed the composition its segments reflect the internal reorganization around Microsoft NET, the Company\' vision for the next-generation Internet-based products and services. Except for operating income/(loss), prior year disclosures have been restated for consistent presentation. not practicable discern operating income for for the current segments due previous internal reorganizations. Microsoft has four segments: Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services; Consumer Software, Services, and Devices; Consumer Commerce Investments; and Other. Desktop and Enterprise Software and Services operating segment includes Desktop Applications, Desktop Platforms, and Enterprise Software and Services. Desktop Applications include Microsoft Office; Project; Visio; client access licenses for Windows Server, Windows Server, Exchange, and BackOffice; Microsoft Great Plains; and bCentral. Desktop Platforms include Windows Professional, Windows Workstation, Windows Millennium Edition (Windows ), Windows , and other desktop operating systems. Enterprise Software and Services includes Windows Server and Windows Server operating systems, SQL Server and client access licenses, Exchange Server, developer tools, consulting services, product support services, and training and certification. Consumer Software, Services, and Devices operating segment includes MSN Internet access, MSN network services, WebTV Internet access and services, gaming, learning and productivity software, mobile and wireless devices, and embedded systems. Consumer Commerce Investments operating segment includes Expedia, Inc., the HomeAdvisor online real estate service, and the CarPoint online automotive service. Other includes Hardware and Press. Segment information presented accordance with SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information. This standard based management approach, which requires segmentation based upon the Company\' internal organization and disclosure revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. The Company\' financial reporting systems present various data for management run the business, including internal profit and loss statements ( & ) prepared basis not consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting purposes. Reconciling items for revenue include certain elements unearned revenue and the treatment certain channel inventory amounts and estimates. addition the reconciling items for revenue, reconciling items for operating income/(loss) include general and administrative expenses ($ , million and $ million ), certain research expenses ($ million and $ million ), and other corporate level adjustments. The internal & use accelerated methods depreciation and amortization. Additionally, losses equity investees and minority interest are classified operating income for internal reporting presentations. Revenue attributable . operations includes shipments customers the United States, licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations, and exports finished goods, primarily Asia, Latin America, and Canada. Revenue from . operations totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Revenue from outside the United States, excluding licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations and . exports, totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . single customer accounted for approximately %, %, and % revenue , , and . Long-lived assets totaled $ billion and $ billion the United States and and $ million and $ million other countries and . Subsequent Event July , , USA Networks, Inc. (USA) announced agreement acquire controlling interest Expedia, Inc. through the purchase million shares, approximately % the current outstanding shares. holders more than million Expedia shares elect sell their shares USA, there will pro rata reduction among all those electing shareholders. Microsoft has agreed transfer all its million shares and warrants, subject pro- ration. expected that the transaction will close December , . Quarterly Information ( millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) Quarter Ended --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Revenue ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income ( )( ) , , , , Basic earnings per share ( )( ) Diluted earnings per share ( )( ) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ( ) For the first three quarters , revenue and cost revenue have been reclassified report Expedia merchant revenue net basis, which represents the amount charged the customer less the amount paid the supplier. ( ) First quarter includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per basic share and $ per diluted share. ( ) Fourth quarter includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments, primarily cable and telecommunication investments. Independent Auditors\' Report -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\' equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. discussed the notes the financial statements, the Company was required adopt Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, effective July , . Deloitte & Touche LLP Seattle, Washington July , (September , the second paragraph Contingencies note) ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. PART III Item . Directors the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Item . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the captions "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" and "Indebtedness Executive Officers" the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed reports Form - during the quarter ended June , . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description -------------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non- Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\' Consent _____________________________ ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . Signatures Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / John . Connors ------------------------------------------- John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title / / William . Gates, III -------------------------------------- Chairman the Board Directors William . Gates, III and Chief Software Architect / / Steven . Ballmer -------------------------------------- Steven . Ballmar Chief Executive Officer / / James . Cash, . -------------------------------------- James . Cash, . Director / / Raymond . Gilmartin -------------------------------------- Raymond . Gilmartin Director / / Ann McLaughlin Korologos -------------------------------------- Ann McLaughlin Korologos Director / / David . Marquardt -------------------------------------- David . Marquardt Director / / . . Reed, . -------------------------------------- . . Reed, . Director / / Jon . Shirley -------------------------------------- Jon . Shirley Director / / John . Connors -------------------------------------- John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the captions "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" and "Indebtedness Executive Officers" the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 14. ': "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed reports Form - during the quarter ended June , . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description -------------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non- Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors' Consent _____________________________ ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . Signatures Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / John . Connors ------------------------------------------- John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title / / William . Gates, III -------------------------------------- Chairman the Board Directors William . Gates, III and Chief Software Architect / / Steven . Ballmer -------------------------------------- Steven . Ballmar Chief Executive Officer / / James . Cash, . -------------------------------------- James . Cash, . Director / / Raymond . Gilmartin -------------------------------------- Raymond . Gilmartin Director / / Ann McLaughlin Korologos -------------------------------------- Ann McLaughlin Korologos Director / / David . Marquardt -------------------------------------- David . Marquardt Director / / . . Reed, . -------------------------------------- . . Reed, . Director / / Jon . Shirley -------------------------------------- Jon . Shirley Director / / John . Connors -------------------------------------- John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ", 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}