{'item 1. ': 'Business GENERAL Microsoft Corporation was founded partnership and incorporated . Our mission enable people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential, and our vision empowering people through great software \x96 any time, any place, and any device. develop, manufacture, license, and support wide range software products for multitude computing devices. Our software products include scalable operating systems for servers, personal computers (PCs), and intelligent devices; server applications for client server environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; and software development tools. provide consulting services and product support services and train and certify system integrators and developers. sell the Xbox video game console, along with games and peripherals. Our online businesses include the MSN subscription and the MSN network Internet products and services. Microsoft also researches and develops advanced technologies for future software products. significant portion our focus our NET architecture. Using common industry standards based Extensible Markup Language (XML), universal language for describing and exchanging data, our goal enable seamless sharing information across many platforms and programming languages, and over the Internet, with XML Web services. addition, have embarked long-term initiative called Trustworthy Computing that aims bring enhanced level security, privacy, reliability, and business integrity computer systems. PRODUCT SEGMENTS revised our product segments for fiscal year . Our seven product segments are Client, Server and Tools, Information Worker, Microsoft Business Solutions, MSN, Mobile and Embedded Devices, and Home and Entertainment. Changes our segments are designed provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses; promote better alignment strategies and objectives among development, sales, marketing, and services organizations; provide for more timely and rational allocation development, sales, and marketing resources within businesses; focus strategic planning efforts key objectives and initiatives; and give business owners more autonomy detailed planning. See Note the Notes Financial Statements for financial information regarding segment reporting. Prior year segment information has been restated conform the seven new segments. Client Client segment includes Windows , Windows , and other standard Windows operating systems. Windows extends the personal computing experience uniting PCs, devices, and services, while enhancing reliability, security, and performance. Windows Home Edition designed for individuals families and includes capabilities for digital photo, music, video, home networking, and communications. Windows Professional includes all the features Home Edition, plus remote access, security, performance, manageability, and multilingual features help users improve productivity and connectivity. Windows was the successor Windows . Client has overall responsibility for product delivery, engineering and technical architecture for the Microsoft Windows operating system, and new media technology, well our relationships with manufacturers personal computers and non- devices, including multinational and regional original equipment manufacturer (OEM) accounts. The segment includes sales and marketing expenses focused business development efforts for the Windows platform, well integration our technologies and products into non- devices. Server and Tools Server and Tools segment consists server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and other servers. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier product support services, and Microsoft consulting services. Microsoft server products offer comprehensive range solutions designed meet the needs developers and professionals, and are designed flexibly run the programs and solutions that enable information workers obtain, analyze, and share information quickly and easily. Microsoft servers provide capabilities ranging from messaging and collaboration database management and ranging from -commerce mobile information access. Windows Server multipurpose operating system capable handling diverse set server roles either centralized distributed fashion. SQL Server Web-enabled database and data analysis package, providing core support for XML and the ability query across the Internet. Microsoft Exchange delivers reliable, scalable, and manageable infrastructure with × messaging and collaboration. Systems Management Server delivers cost-effective, scalable change and configuration management for Windows\x96based desktop and server systems. Small Business Server network solution that includes the Windows Server network operating system and designed help small businesses. Developer tools focus coordinating the overall programming model for the client and server, creating tools for the NET platform, and fostering synergies between Windows and the Windows Server System offerings. Server and Tools segment includes the integrated product development and marketing that delivers Microsoft Windows Server System products. addition, the segment provides information about the extended Microsoft platform through variety content offerings, such web-based training for developers and managers. Through this segment, offer broad range consulting services for advanced technology requirements, including custom solutions services, enterprise application planning, architecture and design services, and proof- -concept services. also provide product support services aligned our enterprise customers. The Server and Tools segment includes our Enterprise and Partner Group, which responsible for enterprise sales / MSFT FORM - Part , Item strategy, enterprise sales learning and readiness, enterprise solution selling, enterprise partner sales strategy, and enterprise field communications. This group also responsible for technical selling, field competitive strategy, and all competitive sales engagements. Information Worker Information Worker segment responsible for developing and delivering technologies that focus improving productivity for information workers corporations. consists the new Microsoft Office System programs, servers, services, and solutions. Microsoft Office System the successor Microsoft Office and expected released market the first half fiscal . The Microsoft Office System includes the Microsoft Office Editions, which include (depending the edition): Microsoft Office Outlook , Microsoft Office Excel , Microsoft Office PowerPoint , Microsoft Office Word , and Microsoft Office Access . Other products the Microsoft Office System include Microsoft Office Visio , Microsoft Office Project , Microsoft Office Project Server , Microsoft Office InfoPath , Microsoft Office OneNote , Microsoft Office Publisher , Microsoft Office FrontPage , and Microsoft Office SharePoint Portal Server . Microsoft Office has evolved from suite personal productivity products more comprehensive and integrated system products for information work designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. The Microsoft Office System features integration with Microsoft intranet collaboration technologies, Information Rights Management, and support for industry standard XML. The Information Worker segment also includes Microsoft Office Live Meeting, resulting from our acquisition PlaceWare, Inc., Microsoft Office Live Communications Server , and allocation for CALs. The segment also includes professional product support. The segment includes the Small and Mid-Market Solutions & Partners (SMS& ) organization, which responsible for sales, partner management, partner programs, and customer segment marketing for the small and mid-market businesses. fiscal year , SMS& group will integrate the sales and marketing assets the Microsoft Business Solutions segment with the existing Worldwide Small and Medium Business groups. believe this combined effort will lead expanded opportunity for Microsoft and our customers and partners making available the complete range Microsoft products and services small and mid-market businesses, creating increased growth opportunities for the independent software vendor (ISV) community. Microsoft Business Solutions Microsoft Business Solutions segment includes the businesses Great Plains, Microsoft bCentral, and Navision. Microsoft Business Solutions develops and markets wide range business applications designed help small and mid-market businesses become more connected with customers, employees, partners, and suppliers. Microsoft Business Solutions applications provide end- -end automation for financial reporting, distribution, project accounting, electronic commerce, human resources and payroll, manufacturing, supply chain management, business intelligence, sales and marketing management, and customer service and support. Microsoft Business Solutions products are designed meet the broad spectrum business application needs small mid-market businesses, group that generally consist businesses with $ million $ million annual revenue. The business solutions are fully and seamlessly integrated across the application areas enterprise resource management (ERM), customer relationship management (CRM), supply chain management (SCM) and business intelligence. These business solutions are sold, implemented, and supported through partner network consisting more than , value added resellers, systems integrators, consultants, ISVs, accounting firms (national, regional, and local), application service providers (ASPs), and eBuilders. Microsoft Business Solutions partners provide strong distribution, marketing, training, and support the business application customer segment. MSN MSN segment includes MSN Subscriptions and MSN Network services. MSN Subscription services include MSN Internet access and premium services such MSN Extra Storage, MSN Bill Pay, MSN Radio Plus and MSN Mobile, which are offered consumers regardless their Internet Service Provider. The MSN Network delivers online communication services such email and online instant messaging through its MSN Hotmail and MSN Messenger products. also delivers popular information services, such MSN Search and content from top partners like MSNBC, ESPN, Expedia, and Access Hollywood. The segment responsible for building and operating the MSN Network and for delivering MSN Subscription services. Revenue principally generated from subscribers MSN\x92 Internet access and premium services and from advertisers the MSN Network. MSN delivers its services direct via its MSN Network and through partnerships with network operators such Verizon, Qwest, Charter Communications, and Bell Canada. Mobile and Embedded Devices Mobile and Embedded Devices segment consists Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded device operating systems, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. Windows Mobile software powers Pocket , Pocket Phone Edition, and Smartphone products. Windows Embedded, including Windows NET, Windows Embedded and Windows Embedded, family operating system software used non- computing devices. Windows Embedded software used widely advanced consumer electronics devices including digital televisions, -based set top boxes, network gateways, and portable media players, well enterprise devices including industrial controllers, retail point sale systems, and voice-over- phones. The MapPoint family location-enabled products and services includes the MapPoint Web Service, hosted programmable XML web service that allows developers integrate location intelligence applications, business processes and web sites, and business and consumer oriented mapping -ROM products. Windows Automotive automotive grade software platform that provides developers with the building blocks quickly and reliably create broad range advanced telematics solutions. Mobile and Embedded Devices segment develops and markets the product lines described above. Further, the segment manages relationships with device manufacturers and with network service providers, including telecommunications, cable and wireless companies and host and network equipment providers. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Home and Entertainment Home and Entertainment segment includes the Microsoft Xbox video game system, games, the Home Products Division (HPD), and platform products. Microsoft Xbox, released fiscal , our next-generation video game console system that delivers high quality graphics and audio experiences. offer several types entertainment products, including classic software games, online games, simulations, and sport and strategy games. HPD includes Microsoft\x92 line consumer hardware and software products, such the Encarta line learning products and services, the Picture ! consumer publishing and productivity line products and services, the Macintosh applications business, and the Microsoft hardware products. Home and Entertainment segment oversees development and business strategy for the Microsoft Xbox video game system, including hardware, third-party games development, games development published under the Microsoft label, Xbox and Xbox Live operations, marketing, research, and sales and support. The segment leads the development efforts our HPD product lines. The segment also carries out all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office, the Windows operating systems, Xbox, games, and HPD products. The segment responsible for the development, sales, and deployment Microsoft\x92 platform products for the interactive television industry. INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Microsoft develops and sells products throughout the world. Our three major geographic sales and marketing organizations are the Americas Region, the Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region, and the Japan and Asia-Pacific Region. Pressure globalize our pricing structure might require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. number other factors could also have negative effect our business and results from operations outside the United States, including changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region, including foreign exchange rates; difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; and potential adverse foreign tax consequences. portion international revenue hedged, thus offsetting portion the currency translation exposure. EQUITY METHOD INVESTMENTS have entered into joint venture arrangements take advantage creative talent and content from other organizations. For example, own percent MSNBC Cable ., -hour cable news and information channel, and percent MSNBC Interactive News ., interactive online news service. National Broadcasting Company (NBC) owns the remaining percent each these joint ventures. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years. During fiscal year , $ million goodwill amortization was included research and development expense. goodwill amortization included fiscal years and , accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. plan continue spending significant amounts for research and product development. Most our software products are developed internally. also purchase technology, license intellectual property rights, and oversee third-party development and localization certain products. not believe are materially dependent upon licenses and other agreements with third parties relating the development our products. Internal development allows maintain closer technical control over our products and gives the freedom designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. work devise innovative solutions computer science, such making computers easier use, designing software for the next generation hardware, improving the software design process, and investigating the mathematical underpinnings computer science. have created substantial body development tools and have evolved development methodologies for creating and enhancing our products. These tools and methodologies are also designed simplify product\x92 portability among different operating systems, microprocessors, and computing devices. Product documentation generally created internally. strive obtain information the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, provide application vendors range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Microsoft NET our strategy and implementation connecting people, information, systems and devices through the use Web services. includes everything needed develop and deploy Web service-connected architecture: servers host Web services (Windows Server System and Windows Server ), development tools create them (Microsoft Visual Studio NET and the NET Framework), applications and smart devices that use them (Microsoft Office System, smart phones, Pocket PCs and PCs), and worldwide network more than , Microsoft Certified Partner organizations \x96 people whose skills and experience can help businesses get the most from their investments. Built industry standards, Web services enable applications communicate and share data over the Internet intranet, regardless operating system programming language. believe that establishing trust computing will critical our future success. Trustworthy Computing means helping ensure safe and reliable computing experience that both expected and taken for granted. Achieving Trustworthy Computing will require the collaboration hardware and software companies, academic and government research institutions, and policy leaders. For , Trustworthy Computing company-wide initiative aimed changing how business that will take fundamental research and advances engineering, well changes business culture and business processes accomplish. think there are four factors that affect the level trust that people place computing: Security, Privacy, Reliability, and Business Integrity. Security means the customer can expect that systems are resilient attack, and that the confidentiality, integrity, and availability the system and its data are protected. Privacy means the customer able control personal information and feel confident not only safe and used appropriately, but way that provides value. reliable system / MSFT FORM - Part , Item service one the customer can depend fulfill its functions. Business Integrity involves being responsive customers, addressing problems effectively with products services, and being transparent and responsive customer interactions. serve the needs users around the world, \x93localize\x94 many our products reflect local languages and conventions and improve the quality and usability the product international markets. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. MANUFACTURING contract out most our manufacturing activities third parties. Outside manufacturers produce the Xbox, various retail software packaged products, and hardware. Our products may include some components that are available from only one from limited sources. Key components that are currently obtained from single source include the Xbox central processing unit (CPU) from Intel Corporation and the Xbox graphics processing unit (GPU) from NVIDIA Corporation. With the exception the Xbox CPU and GPU, generally have the ability use other custom manufacturers the current manufacturing vendor becomes unavailable. generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components and are often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. OPERATIONS have regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and the greater Seattle area. The centers support all operations their regions, including information processing and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Dublin, Ireland supports the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region, the center Singapore supports the Japan and Asia-Pacific region, and the center the greater Seattle area supports North and South America. Microsoft Licensing, Inc., wholly-owned subsidiary Reno, Nevada, manages our original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and certain organizational licensing operations. DISTRIBUTION, SALES AND MARKETING distribute our products primarily through the following channels: OEM; distributors and resellers; and online services and products. Our three major geographic sales and marketing organizations are the Americas Region; the Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region; and the Japan and Asia-Pacific Region. OEM Microsoft operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right distribute copies our products with their computing devices, principally PCs. also market and license certain server operating systems, desktop applications, hardware devices, and consumer software products OEMs under similar arrangements. have OEM agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the major OEMs, including Acer, Actebis, Dell, eMachines, Fujitsu, Fujitsu Gateway, , IBM, NEC, Samsung, Siemens Computers, Sony, and Toshiba. substantial amount OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume customized vendors. Distributors and Resellers distribute our finished goods products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers and retail outlets. Organizations license our products primarily through Large Account Resellers (LARs), Direct Market Resellers (DMRs), and value added resellers. Many organizations that license products through Enterprise Agreements (EAs) now transact directly with with sales support from our Enterprise Software Advisor channel partners. These Enterprise Software Advisors are also typically authorized LARs and operate resellers for our other licensing programs. Although all our types reselling partners reach organizations all sizes, LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations and value added resellers typically reach the breadth small and medium sized organizations. Some our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some our largest resellers include Software Spectrum, Software House International, Dell, CDW, and Insight Enterprises. Individual consumers obtain our products primarily through retail outlets including Best Buy, Wal-Mart, and Target. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support. license software organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer acquire multiple licenses product. These arrangements are designed provide organizations with means acquiring multiple licenses, without having acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. delivering organizational licensing arrangements the market, use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they are follows: Open. Targeted small medium organizations, this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, rights future versions software products, over specified time period (generally two years). The offering that conveys rights future versions software product called Software Assurance. Software Assurance also provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Under the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only licenses with Software Assurance. They can also renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Select. Targeted medium large organizations, this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, Software Assurance, which consists rights future versions software products, support, tools, and training, over specified time period (generally three years). Similar the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with Software Assurance, renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Enterprise Agreement. The Enterprise Agreement targeted large organizations that want acquire perpetual licenses software products for their entire enterprise along with rights future versions software products over three year period. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Enterprise Subscription Agreement. The Enterprise Subscription Agreement (ESA) time-based, multi-year licensing arrangement. Under ESA, customers acquire the right use the current version software products and the future versions that are released during the three year term the arrangement. the end the arrangement term, customers may either renew their ESA arrangement exercise buy-out option obtain perpetual licenses for the latest version the covered products. they not elect one these options, then all covered software must uninstalled. Online Services and Products distribute online content and services through MSN Subscription services, MSN Network services, bCentral small business portal, and other online services. MSN Subscription services deliver Internet access and other premium services and tools consumers. MSN Network services deliver online email and messaging communication services well information services such online search and premium content. The bCentral portal provides tools and expertise for small business owners build, market and manage their businesses online. Other services delivered online include Microsoft Developer Networks (MSDN) subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support our partners developing and selling Microsoft products and solutions. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small- and medium-size organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet Service Providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small- and medium-size organizations obtain Microsoft products primarily through resellers and OEMs. single customer accounted for % more revenue , , . Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. COMPETITION The software business intensely competitive and subject rapid technological change, evolving customer requirements, and changing business models. face significant competition all areas our current business activities. The rapid pace technological change continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. Customer requirements and preferences continually change other information technologies emerge become less expensive, and emerging concerns such security and privacy become paramount concern. face direct competition with firms adopting alternative business models the commercial software model. Firms adopting the Open Source model typically provide customers with Open Source software nominal cost and earn revenue complimentary services and products, without having bear the full costs research and development for the Open Source software. Additionally, global software piracy \x96 the unlawful copying and distribution our copyrighted software products \x96 deprives large amounts revenue annual basis. Further, the existing versions our products licensed our installed base users compete with future versions. This means that future versions must deliver significant additional value order induce existing customers purchase new version our product. Our competitive position may adversely affected the future one more the factors described this section. Client Although are the leader operating system software products, face strong competition from well established companies and entities with differing approaches the market. Competing commercial software products, including variants Unix, are supplied competitors, such IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Apple Computer, Sun Microsystems and others, who are vertically integrated both software development and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they preinstall their own computers. Personal computer OEMs who preinstall third party operating systems may also license these firms\x92 operating systems Open Source software, especially offerings based Linux. Variants Unix run wide variety computer platforms and have gained increasing acceptance desktop operating systems, part due the increasing performance standard hardware components decreasing prices. The Linux open source operating system, which also derived from Unix and available without payment under General Public License, has gained increasing acceptance its feature set increasingly resembles the distinct and innovative features Windows and competitive pressures personal computer OEMs reduce costs continue increase. The Microsoft Windows operating systems also face competition from alternative platforms such those based Internet browsing software and Java technology promoted Sun Microsystems, well innovative form factors that may reduce consumer demand for traditional personal computers. believe our operating system products compete effectively delivering better innovation, overall value, easy- -use interface, compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, and the largest support network for any operating system. Server and Tools Our server operating system products face intense competition from wide variety competing server operating systems and server applications offered firms with variety market approaches. Several vertically integrated computer manufacturers, such IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Apple Computer, Sun Microsystems and others offer their own variant Unix preinstalled server hardware, and virtually all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system. IBM\x92 endorsement Linux has accelerated its acceptance alternative both traditional Unix and Windows server operating systems. Linux\x92 competitive position has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many leading commercial software developers well Open Source community developers. number companies supply versions Linux, including Red Hat and Linux. compete the business providing enterprise-wide computing solutions with several companies that provide competing solutions well middleware technology platforms. IBM and Sun Microsystems lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition (J2EE). Commercial software developers that provide competing server applications for the -based / MSFT FORM - Part , Item distributed client server environments include Oracle, IBM, Computer Associates, Sybase, and Informix. There are also number Open Source server applications available. Numerous commercial software vendors offer competing commercial software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, and -business servers. Additionally, IBM has large installed base Lotus Notes and :Mail, both which compete with our collaboration and email products. There are also significant number Open Source software products that compete with Microsoft solutions, including Apache Web Server. The Open Source model Linux and other server programs enables both services and hardware companies provide customers with Open Source software nominal cost and earn revenue complimentary services and products, without having bear the full costs research and development for the Open Source software. For example, IBM, with the largest hardware and services businesses the industry, promotes Linux extensively and seeks earn revenues and profits the sale its consulting services implement the Linux server solution well related hardware and commercial software products that run Linux. Our developer products compete against offerings from BEA Systems, Borland, IBM, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Sybase, and other companies. believe that our server products provide customers with significant advantages innovation, performance (both relative total costs ownership and absolute terms), productivity, applications development tools and environment, compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Information Worker While are the leader business productivity software applications, competitors the Microsoft Office System include many software application vendors, such Apple, Corel, IBM, Oracle, QUALCOMM, Sun Microsystems, and local application developers Europe and Asia. IBM and Corel have significant installed bases with their spreadsheet and word processor products, respectively, and both have aggressive pricing strategies. Also, Apple and IBM preinstall certain their application software products various models their PCs, competing directly with our applications. Corel\x92 suite and Sun Microsystems\x92 Star Office are aggressively priced and attractive for OEMs pre-install low-priced PCs. The OpenOffice org project provides freely downloadable cross-platform application that gaining popularity certain market segments. addition traditional client-side applications, web-based applications hosting services such SimDesk provide alternative Microsoft Office and are gaining some support. believe that our products compete effectively providing customers significant benefits, such easy- -use personal productivity, support for effective teaming and collaboration, and better information management and control. Microsoft Business Solutions The small and mid-market business applications market globally highly fragmented and intensely competitive all sectors. face competition from large number companies this business. Well-known vendors focused small and mid-market business, such Intuit and Sage, compete against for portion this segment. addition, large-enterprise focused vendors, such Oracle, Peoplesoft and SAP, also compete against for portion this segment. However, the competition for significant majority the total business applications market includes thousands much smaller vendors specific localities industries who offer their own enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management, and analytic solutions. MSN MSN competes with AOL-Time Warner, Google, Yahoo!, and vast array Web sites and portals that offer content all types, such email, instant messaging, calendaring, chat, search, and shopping services. the broadband access market grows, expect have increasing opportunity deliver premium subscription services for consumers. AOL and Yahoo! are both pursuing similar strategies and will competitors this emerging category. While the movement broadband access may cause our Internet Access dial- business continue decline, will strive convert customers MSN premium subscription services via partnerships with network providers and Internet software services offered directly from MSN. believe our strengths are our heritage technology innovation, particularly communication services, distribution partnerships, and the large base users our free MSN Network. Additionally, while our advertising business has grown considerably over the last year, evolving market conditions, particularly paid search, will impact our strategy over the next year. currently are building our own search engine and investing support the continued growth our advertising business. Mobile and Embedded Devices Windows Mobile software faces substantial competition from Nokia, Openwave Systems, PalmSource, QUALCOMM, and Symbian. The embedded operating system market highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include IBM, Wind River, and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors, such Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. MapPoint competitors include DeLorme, MapInfo, Mapquest com, Rand McNally, Webraska Mobile Technologies, and Yahoo!. The telematics market also highly fragmented, with competitive offerings from IBM and automotive suppliers building various real-time operating system platforms from commercial Linux vendors, QNX Software Systems, Wind River, and others. Home and Entertainment The home and entertainment business highly competitive and characterized limited platform life cycles, frequent introductions new products and titles, and the development new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized significant price competition, and anticipate continued pricing pressure from our competitors. These pressures have, from time time, required reduce prices certain products. Our competitors vary size from very small companies with limited resources very large, diversified corporations with substantial financial and marketing resources. compete primarily the basis price, product quality and variety, timing product releases, and effectiveness distribution and marketing. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item , , , Our Xbox hardware business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large established base users. addition competing against software published for non-Xbox platforms, our games business also competes with numerous companies that have been licensed Microsoft develop and publish software for the Xbox console. These competitors include Acclaim Entertainment, Activision, Atari, Capcom, Eidos, Electronic Arts, Sega, Take-Two Interactive, Tecmo, THQ, and Ubi Soft, among others. Success the games business increasingly driven hit titles, which are difficult develop and require substantial investments development and marketing. addition, other forms entertainment, such music, motion pictures, and television, compete against our entertainment software for consumer spending. Our hardware products face aggressive competition from computer and other hardware manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners. EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales, marketing, and support, , manufacturing and distribution, and , finance and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. believe have been successful our efforts recruit qualified employees, but cannot guarantee that will continue successful the future. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. There make available, free charge, our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file such material with, furnish , the SEC. Our SEC reports can accessed through the investor relations section our Web site. The information found our Web site not part this any other report file with furnish the SEC. ITEM . Properties Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington, which million square feet corporate campus space situated slightly more than acres land which owned and approximately million square feet which leased. are constructing one building with approximately , square feet space that will occupied the second quarter fiscal year . accommodate future expansion needs purchased approximately acres, and have option purchase approximately additional acres, land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet additional office space. own approximately , square feet office building space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. lease many sites internationally totaling approximately million square feet, including our European Operations Center and localization division that leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and , square-foot facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; United Kingdom campus , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; Vedbaek, Denmark , square feet; Mississauga, Canada , square feet; Taipei, Taiwan , square feet; Sydney, Australia , square feet; and Beijing, China , square feet. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ITEM . Legal Proceedings See Note \x97Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding legal proceedings. ITEM . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers September , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates III Chairman, Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer James . Allchin Group Vice President, Platforms Group Robert . (Robbie) Bach Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment Douglas . Burgum Senior Vice President, Microsoft Business Solutions David . Cole Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group John . Connors Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois Senior Vice President, Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Kenneth . DiPietro Corporate Vice President, Human Resources Kevin . Johnson Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services Michelle (Mich) Mathews Corporate Vice President, Marketing Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President, Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services Eric . Rudder Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary David Vaskevitch Senior Vice President, Chief Technical Officer, Business Platforms . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman since our incorporation. . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms Group December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity and Vice President, Desktop Applications Marketing since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Burgum joined the Company upon Microsoft\x92 acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. April . . Burgum became Great Plains\x92 first outside investor March . was named President Great Plains and subsequently named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. . Cole was named Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group November . Before holding that position, had been Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division since August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December and Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . Previously, was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Connors was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer December . had been Vice President, Worldwide Enterprise Group since March . . Connors had been Vice President, Information Technology Group, and Chief Information Officer since July . joined Microsoft . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa March . had been Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Worldwide Customer Marketing since July . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . DiPietro joined Microsoft January Corporate Vice President, Human Resources. Prior joining Microsoft, was Vice President Human Resources for the Americas Dell Computer Corporation. Before joining Dell, was Senior Vice President Human Resources Pepsi-Cola International. . Johnson was named Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services March . had been Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas since February . . Johnson had been Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August , and before that, Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. joined Microsoft . . Mathews was named Corporate Vice President, Marketing August . Before holding her current position, . Mathews had been Vice President Corporate Public Relations since . . Mathews joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services August . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Rudder was named Senior Vice President, Developer and Platform Evangelism October . had been Vice President, Technical Strategy. . Rudder joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary November . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing our European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . . Vaskevitch was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Business Platform August . had been Senior Vice President, Business Applications since March . . Vaskevitch had been Senior Vice President, Developer since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Distributed Applications Platform. joined Microsoft . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item , , PART ITEM . Market for Registrant\x92 Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal Common stock price per share ( ) : High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal Common stock price per share ( ) : High $ $ $ $ $ Low ( ) Amounts have been restated reflect two-for-one stock split February . January , our Board Directors declared our first annual common stock dividend, $ per share, which was paid March . Our dividend policy impacted , among other items, our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. connection with Microsoft\x92 acquisition Navision , pursuant voluntary offer acquire all Navision ordinary shares, Microsoft issued million shares its common stock Navision shareholders July , , exchange for million Navision ordinary shares, nominal value DKK per share. The price paid Microsoft connection with the offer was DKK per each Navision share, payable each Navision shareholder\x92 election either cash Microsoft shares, the basis exchange ratio shares Microsoft common stock for each Navision ordinary share. These issuances Microsoft common stock were not registered under the Securities Act the basis the exemption provided Rule thereunder. Rule exempts offers and sales exchange offer for class securities foreign private issuer business combination transaction, certain conditions are met. Since the completion the acquisition, have issued , shares our common stock employees exchange for , ordinary shares Navision that were acquired upon exercise warrants and stock options issued employees Navision and its subsidiaries that were outstanding the time the acquisition. The issuances were not registered under the Securities Act. ITEM . Selected Financial Data Financial Highlights ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June ( ) ( ) ( ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share before accounting change ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ) Cash dividends per share \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , ( ) Earnings per share have been restated reflect two-for-one stock split February . ( ) Fiscal year includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . , and $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments, primarily cable and telecommunication investments. ( ) Fiscal year includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments, primarily related our & investment and further declines the fair values European cable and telecommunications holdings, and $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. ( ) Fiscal year includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ITEM . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Results Operations for , , and Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis ( & ) contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because factors discussed \x93Issues and Uncertainties\x94 and elsewhere this report. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item REVENUE Our revenue growth rate was % fiscal , % fiscal , and % fiscal . Revenue growth fiscal was driven primarily multi-year licensing that occurred before the transition our new licensing program (Licensing ) the first quarter fiscal . Prior the July , transition date Licensing , experienced significant growth multi-year licensing arrangements customers enrolled our maintenance programs, including Upgrade Advantage and Software Assurance. The revenue growth also reflected $ million % increase associated with OEM licensing Microsoft Windows operating systems and $ million % increase revenue from Microsoft Xbox video game consoles. Revenue growth fiscal was led the addition $ billion Xbox video game system revenue and $ billion revenue growth from Microsoft Windows Professional and Home operating systems. Revenue growth fiscal was driven primarily licensing Microsoft Windows Professional with $ billion growth revenue from Professional operating systems, and Server and Tools revenue growth $ million. During the second quarter fiscal , launched new licensing program, Licensing , for volume licensing customers. Licensing simplifies and improves our volume licensing program with Software Assurance, which gives customers the right install any new release products covered the licensing agreement during the term their coverage. The level customer adoption our new volume licensing programs will affect the mix multi-year licensing agreements with resulting impact the timing revenue recognition. addition, the timing and extent recovery consumer and corporate spending PCs and information technology will factors affecting revenue growth. CONSOLIDATED OPERATING INCOME Operating income grew % fiscal , % fiscal , and % fiscal . fiscal , the growth operating income reflected increase $ billion revenue, partially offset increase $ billion operating expenses, primarily related employee and related costs associated with additional headcount and increased legal settlement expenses. fiscal , the growth operating income reflected increase $ billion revenue, substantially offset increase $ billion operating expenses, which included the onset costs related Xbox video game systems. fiscal , the growth operating income reflected increase $ billion revenue, partially offset increase $ billion operating expenses. SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) revised our segments for fiscal year . Our seven segments are: · Client · Server and Tools · Information Worker · Microsoft Business Solutions · MSN · Mobile and Embedded Devices · Home and Entertainment The revenue and operating income/(loss) amounts this & are presented accordance with . GAAP. Segment Information appearing Note the Notes Financial Statements are presented accordance with SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . The following table presents our segment revenue and operating income, determined accordance with . GAAP: ( millions) Revenue Operating Income/(Loss) Year Ended June Client $ , $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , , Information Worker , , , , Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) ( ) MSN , , ( ) ( ) Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) ( ) Home and Entertainment , , ( ) ( ) Other \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , $ , Client Client revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Client includes revenue from Windows Professional and Home, Windows Professional, and other standard Windows operating systems. , Client revenue growth was driven OEM licensing revenue growth $ million and percentage point increase the mix the higher priced Windows Professional operating systems, the majority which was the OEM channel. Windows Professional revenue growth for fiscal was $ billion % compared fiscal , partially offset $ million decline revenue / MSFT FORM - Part , Item earlier versions Windows operating systems. Client operating profit for fiscal increased % primarily result the % growth revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses, largely attributed headcount additions and related costs. fiscal , the growth Client revenue reflected strong multi-year licensing revenue growth and continued shift sales the higher priced Windows and Windows Professional operating system licensed through OEMs. OEM revenue grew $ million, despite % decline reported OEM unit shipments. Fiscal revenue growth reflected the strong adoption Windows Professional with professional operating systems revenue growth $ billion and percentage point mix increase the higher priced Windows Professional and Windows Workstation operating systems, and $ million increase revenue from Windows and Windows operating systems. not expect the revenue growth attributed the mix toward the higher priced Windows Professional operating system continue previous levels into fiscal . Additionally, variability between the reported OEM unit shipments and the underlying Market may continue result the transition new OEM licensing terms the beginning fiscal year , under which OEMs are billed upon their acquisition Certificates Authenticity (COAs) rather than upon the shipment PCs their customers. Server and Tools Server and Tools revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Server and Tools consists server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and other servers. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier product support services, and Microsoft consulting services. Total Server and Tools revenue grew $ million % fiscal , driven increase Windows-based server shipments and growth SQL Server and Exchange revenue. Server revenue, including CALs, grew $ million % from fiscal result increased new and anniversary multi-year licensing agreements. Consulting and Premier product support services increased $ million % compared fiscal . Revenue from developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press and other services increased $ million %. Server operating profit for fiscal grew %, primarily result the % increase revenue. fiscal , Server and Tools revenue increased % compared fiscal . Server revenue, including CALs, increased % versus fiscal , driven % overall increase Windows-based server shipments and increased deployment Windows Server. Consulting and Premier product support services revenue was $ million % compared fiscal , while revenue from developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press and other services was down $ million % from fiscal . fiscal , Server and Tools revenue increased $ million % versus the prior year, result the continued adoption the Microsoft Enterprise Server offerings. Information Worker Information Worker revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Information Worker includes revenue from Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Visio, other information worker products, SharePoint Portal Server CALs, and professional product support services. The $ billion % increase Information Worker revenue fiscal year compared fiscal , was primarily due growth Office suites revenue associated with new and anniversary multi-year licensing agreements and $ million % increase revenue from the combined total Project, Visio, and other standalone applications. Information Worker operating profit for fiscal year grew % compared fiscal year led the % increase revenue, partially offset % growth operating expenses related headcount additions and marketing expenses. fiscal , Information Worker licensing revenue declined $ million % during the year due shift the sales mix multi-year licensing agreements, which deferred revenue recognition future years, and $ million % decrease consumer purchases the Asia-Pacific region, most notably Japan, partially offset $ million % growth OEM licensing revenue. fiscal , Information Worker revenue growth was less than % $ million. Microsoft Business Solutions Microsoft Business Solutions revenue was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Microsoft Business Solutions includes Microsoft Great Plains, Navision, and bCentral. Microsoft Business Solutions revenue for fiscal grew $ million from fiscal , which $ million was attributable the acquisition Navision the beginning the fiscal year. Microsoft Business Solutions operating loss for fiscal increased %, primarily due operating losses associated with Navision, increases sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, and acquisition related costs. MSN MSN revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . MSN includes MSN Subscriptions and MSN Network services. Although total MSN subscribers the end fiscal were flat compared the end fiscal , MSN Subscriptions revenue grew $ million % fiscal year reflecting increase the number non-promotion subscribers. MSN Network services revenue grew $ million % fiscal result growth paid search and strong general advertising sales across all geographic regions. MSN operating loss for fiscal decreased %, primarily result the growth revenue and lower relative subscription acquisition and support costs. fiscal , MSN Subscriptions revenue increased $ million % result both higher subscriber base and higher average revenue per subscriber due reduction promotional subscriber programs. Revenue from MSN Network services increased $ million % led online advertising. fiscal , revenue from MSN Network services grew $ million % led online advertising. MSN Subscriptions revenue also grew $ million % from fiscal result increased subscriber base, partially offset decline the average revenue per subscriber due larger mix subscribers contracted under rebate programs. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Mobile and Embedded Devices Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded device operating systems, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. Revenue for fiscal grew $ million driven increased Pocket shipments and MapPoint licensing. Operating loss for fiscal was flat with the prior year higher marketing expenses and headcount-related costs associated with product development offset the growth revenue. Prior year revenue and operating loss for Mobile and Embedded Devices have been restated reflect the reorganizations MapPoint from Information Worker and Windows embedded device operating systems from Client Mobile and Embedded Devices. Home and Entertainment Home and Entertainment revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Home & Entertainment includes the Xbox video game system, games, consumer software and hardware, and platform. Home and Entertainment revenue increased $ million, result sales Xbox video game systems and related games which were available for all fiscal . Xbox revenue grew $ million % fiscal reflecting $ million increase from higher volumes for Xbox consoles, games, and peripherals partially offset $ million decrease due price changes. Revenue from consumer hardware and software and games declined $ million % fiscal . Operating loss for fiscal increased % from the prior year the product costs associated with the increased Xbox console sales and increased marketing expense more than offset the % increase revenue. fiscal , Home and Entertainment revenue growth from fiscal stemmed from $ billion sales the Xbox video game system released fiscal . Learning and productivity software revenue and and online games declined $ million % fiscal compared fiscal . fiscal , Home and Entertainment revenue declined $ million % from fiscal . Other Revenue the Other segment represents our majority ownership Expedia, Inc., which was sold February , resulting decline revenue from fiscal . Acquisitions Travelscape com and VacationSpot com Expedia, Inc. fiscal and increased product offerings from Expedia led the strong revenue growth fiscal . Operating loss includes Expedia, Inc. revenue and operating expenses, general and administrative expenses ($ billion and $ billion ), broad-based research and development expenses ($ million and $ million ), and certain corporate level sales and marketing costs ($ million and $ million ). Foreign Currencies Impact Our operating results are affected foreign exchange rates. Approximately %, %, and % our revenue was collected foreign currencies during , , and . Had the rates from fiscal been effect fiscal , translated international revenue billed local currencies would have been approximately $ million lower. Certain manufacturing, selling distribution and support costs are disbursed local currencies, and portion international revenue hedged, thus offsetting portion the translation exposure. OPERATING EXPENSES Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products and programs sold, operation costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. Cost revenue percent revenue was % , % , and % . For fiscal , cost revenue was $ billion compared $ billion fiscal . The primary driver the decrease percentage revenue fiscal was percentage point decrease from Home and Entertainment products due lower volumes and improved margins Xbox video game consoles and percentage point decrease from MSN product and service costs fiscal compared fiscal . Cost revenue fiscal was $ billion compared $ billion fiscal . The increase percentage revenue fiscal was due increase percentage points from Home and Entertainment primarily due costs related Xbox, partially offset percentage point decrease due higher mix revenue from licensing business. fiscal , cost revenue was $ billion, increase $ million compared fiscal . The higher sales associated with MSN Subscription and MSN Network services resulting increased support and service costs drove the percentage point increase total costs percentage revenue. Research and Development Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Research and development expenses for fiscal were $ billion, increase % compared fiscal . The increase reflects % increase headcount-related costs, % increase third-party product development costs, and % increase testing laboratory equipment and expense. fiscal , research and development expenses were $ billion compared $ billion fiscal . The decrease from fiscal was due the discontinuation amortization goodwill accordance with SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, $ million which offset the % growth headcount-related costs. fiscal , research and development expenses were $ billion, increase % compared fiscal . The increase research and development expenses resulted from % increase headcount-related costs and % increase investments new product development. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other programs. Sales and marketing expense percentage revenue was % , % , and % . Sales and marketing expenses were $ billion , compared $ billion fiscal . The increase absolute dollars was due % increase sales expenses related headcount additions, principally related the Enterprise and Small Medium Business sales forces, and % increase marketing expenses. fiscal , sales and marketing expenses were $ billion, increase % from fiscal . The sales and marketing expenses absolute dollars increased due % increase headcount-related costs partially offset % decline MSN customer acquisition marketing costs and % decline all other marketing costs. fiscal , sales and marketing expenses were $ billion compared $ billion fiscal . The % increase sales and marketing from fiscal was primarily due % growth headcount-related costs, and lesser extent, % growth higher marketing and sales expenses associated with MSN and other new sales initiatives. General and Administrative General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs associated with the finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources, other administrative headcount, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative costs fiscal increased $ million due charge $ million related settlement with AOL Time Warner the fourth quarter and also due $ million charge reflecting increase our estimate costs related resolving pending state antitrust and unfair competition consumer class action lawsuits. General and administrative expenses fiscal increased due charge approximately $ million for estimated expenses related resolving pending state antitrust and unfair competition consumer class action lawsuits and % increase headcount-related costs. fiscal , general and administrative costs decreased due lawsuit settlement charge recorded fiscal , partially offset % growth headcount-related costs. NON-OPERATING ITEMS, INVESTMENT INCOME/(LOSS), AND INCOME TAXES Non-operating items Losses equity investees and other consist our share income loss from investments accounted for using the equity method, and income loss attributable minority interests. The decrease losses equity investees and other fiscal and was due the divestiture certain equity investments fiscal conjunction with the underlying performance such entities. The increase losses equity investees and other fiscal reflected increase the number such investments during the year. Investment Income/(Loss) recorded net investment income/(loss) each year follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Dividends $ $ $ Interest , , , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments: Net gains the sales investments , , Other-than-temporary impairments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net unrealized losses attributable derivative instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains/(losses) investments ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, well our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments decreased mainly due the lack significant continued impairments the cable and telecommunications sectors. Interest income decreased $ million due declining interest rates partially offset larger investment portfolio. Dividend income decreased $ million primarily related the exchange & % convertible preferred debt for common shares & Corporation during the year. fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments primarily related our investment & and other cable and telecommunication investments. Net gains the sales investments included $ billion gain sale our share Expedia. Interest and dividend income decreased $ million from fiscal result lower interest rates and dividend income. fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments primarily related cable and telecommunication investments. Net gains from the sales investments fiscal included gain from our investment Titus Communications (which was merged with Jupiter Telecommunications) and the closing the sale Transpoint CheckFree Holdings Corp. Interest and dividend income increased $ million from fiscal , reflecting larger investment portfolio. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for fiscal was %, reflecting one-time benefit the second quarter $ million from the reversal previously accrued taxes. The tax reversal stems from 9th Circuit Court Appeals ruling December overturning previous Tax Court ruling that had denied tax benefits certain revenue earned from the distribution software foreign customers. Excluding this reversal, the effective tax rate would have been %. The effective tax rate for fiscal and fiscal was % and %, respectively. ACCOUNTING CHANGES Effective July , , adopted SFAS , Business Combinations, and SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . SFAS requires business combinations accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separate from goodwill. SFAS requires that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. There was impairment goodwill upon adoption SFAS . Goodwill amortization ( pre-tax basis) was $ million fiscal . Effective July , , adopted SFAS , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. The adoption SFAS resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax reduction other comprehensive income (OCI) $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset the reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION July , , announced changes employee compensation designed help continue attract and retain the best employees, and better align employee interests with those our shareholders. Employees will granted Stock Awards instead stock options. The Stock Award program offers employees the opportunity earn actual shares our stock over time, rather than options that give employees the right purchase stock set price. part the changes, announced that significant portion stock-based compensation for more than our senior leaders will depend growth the number and satisfaction our customers. also indicated that are working plan enable employees realize some value the portion their stock options that are currently out- -the-money, selling their options third-party financial institution. approved, expect implement this plan the end . addition announcing changes our employee compensation arrangements, also indicated that will adopt the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, effective July , , and will report that change accounting principle using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure . Note the Notes the Financial Statements provides pro forma income statements for , , and compensation cost for our stock option and employee stock purchase plans had been determined prescribed SFAS . FINANCIAL CONDITION Our cash and short-term investment portfolio totaled $ billion June , , increase $ billion from fiscal year . The portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions, order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. Unearned revenue June , was $ billion, increasing $ billion from June , , reflecting the addition new and anniversary multi-year licensing agreements, partially offset continued recognition unearned revenue from multi-year licensing prior periods. Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . The increase reflects $ billion increase net income from fiscal year and increase $ billion unearned revenue, offset increase $ billion recognition unearned revenue. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ million from the prior year. The increase reflects cash dividend payment $ million and increase $ million common stock repurchase, offsetting $ million received for common stock issued. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from fiscal , due stronger portfolio performance sold and matured investments. Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . The increase reflected strong growth unearned revenue result the significant number customers that purchased Upgrade Advantage during the Licensing transition period. This resulted increase billings and corresponding increase the unearned revenue amount. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from the prior year. The decrease reflected the repurchase put warrants the prior year. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal . addition, million shares common stock were acquired fiscal under structured stock repurchase transaction. entered into the structured stock repurchase transaction fiscal , which gave the right acquire million our shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Cash flow from operations was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable the growth revenue and other changes working capital, partially offset decrease the stock option income tax benefit, reflecting decreased stock option exercises employees. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase primarily reflected the repurchase put warrants fiscal , compared the sale put warrants the prior fiscal year, well increase common stock repurchased. All outstanding put warrants were either retired exercised during fiscal . During fiscal , repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. have material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for & , sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. believe existing cash and short-term investments together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and short-term investments, well equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. continuously assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-balance sheet arrangements have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases, millions dollars, are: , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; and thereafter, $ . have unconditionally guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company (Jupiter). These guarantees arose February , conjunction with the expiration prior financing arrangements, including previous guarantees . The financing arrangements were entered into Jupiter part financing its operations. part Jupiter\x92 new financing agreement, agreed guarantee repayment Jupiter the loans approximately $ million. The estimated fair value and the carrying value the guarantees was $ million and did not result charge operations. The guarantees are effect until the earlier repayment the loans, including accrued interest and fees, February , . The maximum amount the guarantees limited the sum the total due and unpaid principal amounts, accrued and unpaid interest, and any other related expenses. Additionally, the maximum amount the guarantees, denominated Japanese yen, will vary based fluctuations foreign exchange rates. were required make payments under the guarantees, may recover all portion those payments upon liquidation Jupiter\x92 assets. The proceeds from such liquidation cannot accurately estimated due the multitude factors that would affect the valuation and realization the proceeds the event liquidation. connection with various operating leases, issued residual value guarantees, which provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS January , the FASB issued Interpretation , Consolidation Variable Interest Entities. general, variable interest entity corporation, partnership, trust, any other legal structure used for business purposes that either ( ) does not have equity investors with voting rights ( ) has equity investors that not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity support its activities. Interpretation requires variable interest entity consolidated company that company subject majority the risk loss from the variable interest entity\x92 activities entitled receive majority the entity\x92 residual returns both. The consolidation requirements Interpretation apply immediately variable interest entities created after January , . The consolidation requirements apply transactions entered into prior February , the first fiscal year interim period beginning after June , . Certain the disclosure requirements apply all financial statements issued after January , , regardless when the variable interest entity was established. The adoption the Interpretation July , did not have material impact our financial statements. April , the FASB issued SFAS , Amendment Statement Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , which amends and clarifies accounting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts, and for hedging activities under SFAS . The Statement effective (with certain exceptions) for contracts entered into modified after June , . not believe the adoption this Statement will have material impact our financial statements. May , the FASB issued SFAS , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics both Liabilities and Equity. The Statement establishes standards for how issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with / MSFT FORM - Part , Item characteristics both liabilities and equity. requires that issuer classify financial instrument that within its scope liability ( asset some circumstances). effective for financial instruments entered into modified after May , , and otherwise effective the beginning the first interim period beginning after June , . While not believe the adoption this Statement will have material impact our financial statements, continue assess the impact this Statement will have certain our share repurchase programs. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, and accounting for income taxes. account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Software Revenue Recognition. The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) fair value exists for those elements. End users receive certain elements our products over period time. These elements include free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, the fair value which recognized over the product\x92 estimated life cycle. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities , and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities , provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, evaluate, among other factors, the duration and extent which the fair value investment less than its cost; the financial health and near-term business outlook for the investee, including factors such industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow; and our intent and ability hold the investment. SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (July for Microsoft) and between annual tests certain circumstances. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities reporting units, assigning goodwill reporting units, and determining the fair value each reporting unit. Significant judgments required estimate the fair value reporting units include estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates and other assumptions. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. account for research and development costs accordance with several accounting pronouncements, including SFAS , Accounting for Research and Development Costs , and SFAS , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed. SFAS specifies that costs incurred internally creating computer software product should charged expense when incurred research and development until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. are subject various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes which are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies , requires that estimated loss from loss contingency should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial position our results operations. SFAS , Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Fluctuations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position our results operations. ISSUES AND UNCERTAINTIES This Annual Report Form - contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because issues and uncertainties such those listed below and elsewhere this report, which, among others, should considered evaluating our financial outlook. Challenges our Business Model Since our inception, our business model has been based upon customers agreeing pay fee license software developed and distributed . Under this commercial software model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenues received from the distribution their products. believe the commercial software model has had substantial benefits for users software, allowing them rely our expertise and the expertise other software developers that have powerful incentives develop / MSFT FORM - Part , Item innovative software that useful, reliable, and compatible with other software and hardware. recent years, there has been growing challenge the commercial software model, often referred the Open Source model. Under the Open Source model, software produced loosely associated groups unpaid programmers, and the resulting software and the intellectual property contained therein licensed end users substantially cost. The most notable example Open Source software the Linux operating system. While believe that our products provide customers with significant advantages security and productivity, and generally have lower total cost ownership than Open Source software, the popularization the Open Source model continues pose significant challenge our business model, including recent efforts proponents the Open Source model convince governments worldwide mandate the use Open Source software their purchase and deployment software products. the extent the Open Source model gains increasing market acceptance, sales our products may decline, may have reduce the prices charge for our products, and revenues and operating margins may consequently decline. Intellectual Property Rights defend our intellectual property rights, but unlicensed copying and use software and intellectual property rights represents loss revenue . While this adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the United States more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits licensing genuine products and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may not affect revenue positively and further deterioration compliance with existing legal protections reductions the legal protection for intellectual property rights software developers could adversely affect revenue. From time time receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow. Responding these claims may require enter into royalty and licensing agreements unfavorable terms, require stop selling redesign affected products, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. have made and expect continue making significant expenditures acquire the use technology and intellectual property rights, including via cross-licenses broad patent portfolios. New Products and Services have made significant investments research, development and marketing for new products, services and technologies, including Microsoft NET, Xbox, business applications, MSN, mobile and wireless technologies, and television. Significant revenue from new product and service investments may not achieved for number years, all. Moreover, these products and services may never profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for these businesses are not expected high the margins historically experienced . Litigation discussed Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements, are subject variety claims and lawsuits. While believe that none the litigation matters which are currently involved will have material adverse impact our financial position results operations, possible that one more these matters could resolved manner that ultimately would have material adverse impact our business, and could negatively impact our revenues, operating margins, and net income. Declines Demand for Software overall market demand for PCs, servers and other computing devices declines significantly, consumer corporate spending for such products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. Additionally, our revenues would unfavorably impacted customers reduce their purchases new software products upgrades existing products because new product offerings are not perceived adding significant new functionality other value prospective purchasers. significant number customers purchased license agreements providing upgrade rights specific licensed products prior the transition Licensing July . These agreements will expire and and the rate which such customers renew these contracts could adversely affect future revenues. are also committing significant investments the next release the Windows operating system, codenamed Longhorn. this system not perceived offering significant new functionality value prospective purchasers, our revenues and operating margins could adversely affected. Product Development Schedule The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new product releases significant problems creating new products, particularly any delays the Longhorn operating system, could adversely affect our revenues. General Economic and Geo-Political Risks Continued softness corporate information technology spending other changes general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenues. Terrorist activity and armed conflict pose the additional risk general economic disruption and could require changes our international operations and security arrangements, thus increasing our operating costs. These conditions lend additional uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Competition continue experience intensive competition across all markets for our products and services. These competitive pressures may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives, resulting lower revenues, gross margins and operating income. Taxation Extraterritorial Income August , World Trade Organization (\x93WTO\x94) dispute panel determined that the tax provisions the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act (\x93ETI\x94) constitute export subsidy prohibited the WTO Agreement Subsidies / MSFT FORM - Part , Item , and Countervailing Measures. The . government appealed the panel\x92 decision and lost its appeal. the ETI provisions are repealed and financially comparable replacement tax legislation not enacted, the loss the ETI tax benefit could significant. Other Potential Tax Liabilities are subject income taxes both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. are regularly under audit tax authorities. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different than that which reflected historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes assessed result audit litigation, material effect our income tax provision and net income the period periods for which that determination made could result. Finite Insurance Programs addition conventional third party insurance arrangements, have entered into captive insurance arrangements for the purpose protecting against possible catastrophic and other risks not covered traditional insurance markets. June , , potential coverage available under captive insurance arrangements was $ billion, subject deductibles, exclusions, and other restrictions. While believe these arrangements are effective way insure against such risks, the potential liabilities associated with certain the issues and uncertainties discussed herein could exceed the coverage provided such arrangements. Other Other issues and uncertainties may include: · warranty and other claims for hardware products such Xbox; · the effects the Consent Decree . . Microsoft and Final Judgment State New York . Microsoft the Windows operating system and server business, including those associated with protocol and other disclosures required the Decree and Final Judgment and the ability manufacturers hide end user access certain new Windows features; · the continued availability third party distribution channels for MSN service and other online services; · factors associated with our international operations, described under International Operations Part , Item this report; and · financial market volatility other changes affecting the value our investments, such the Comcast Corporation securities held , that may result reduction carrying value and recognition losses including impairment charges. ITEM . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are exposed foreign currency, interest rate, and fixed income and equity price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results operations and financial position. hedge portion anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed income securities are subject interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and structured minimize credit risk. routinely use options hedge portion our exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject price risk, and are generally not hedged. However, use options hedge our price risk certain highly volatile equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. use value- -risk (VAR) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VAR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. The model used for currencies and equities geometric Brownian motion, which allows incorporation optionality with regard these risk exposures. For interest rate risk, the mean reverting geometric Brownian motion used reflect the principle that fixed-income securities prices revert maturity value over time. Value- -risk calculated , first, simulating , market price paths over days for equities, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, taking into account historical correlations among the different rates and prices. Each resulting unique set equities prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates applied substantially all individual holdings -price each holding. The worst performance (out , ) represents the value- -risk over days the percentile confidence level. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. Certain securities our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. hedge the value portion these securities through the use derivative contracts such put-call collars. these arrangements, hedge security\x92 market risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most all the benefits the security\x92 appreciation above the sold call strike, exchange for premium received for the sold call. also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. have incurred material impairment charges related these securities. The VAR amounts disclosed below are used risk management tool and reflect estimate potential reductions fair value our portfolio. Losses fair value over -day holding period can exceed the reported VAR significant amounts and can also accumulate over longer time horizon than the -day holding period used the VAR analysis. VAR amounts are not necessarily reflective potential accounting losses, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with . GAAP. The VAR numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency, and equity risks. These VAR numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. use historical data estimate VAR. Given reliance historical data, VAR most effective estimating risk exposures markets which there are fundamental changes shifts market conditions. inherent limitation VAR that the distribution past changes market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions future market risk. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item , The following table sets forth the VAR calculations for substantially all our positions: ( millions) June Year ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Interest rates $ $ $ $ $ Currency rates $ $ $ $ $ Equity prices $ $ $ $ , $ The total VAR for the combined risk categories $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VAR % less June , and % less June, than the sum the separate risk categories for each those years the above table, due the diversification benefit the combination risks. The reasons for the change risk portfolios include: larger investment portfolio size, asset allocation shifts, and changes foreign exchange exposures relative the . dollar. ITEM . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) ( ) ( ) , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Income before accounting change , , , Cumulative effect accounting change (net income taxes $ ) ( ) \x96 \x96 Net income $ , $ , $ , Basic earnings per share ( ) : Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) \x96 \x96 $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share ( ) : Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) \x96 \x96 $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding ( ) : Basic , , , Diluted , , , ( ) Earnings per share and weighted average shares outstanding have been restated reflect two-for-one stock split February . See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventories Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net Other long-term assets , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Deferred income taxes , Other long-term liabilities , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; Shares issued and outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ and $ , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax \x96 \x96 Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , , Net recognized losses investments , , Stock option income tax benefits , , , Deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( ) ( , ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities , Other long-term liabilities Net cash from operations , , , Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases put warrants ( , ) \x96 \x96 Common stock dividends \x96 \x96 ( ) Other, net \x96 \x96 Net cash used for financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( , ) ( ) ( ) Acquisitions companies, net cash acquired \x96 \x96 ( , ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Net cash used for investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net change cash and equivalents ( ) ( ) , Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning year , , , Cash and equivalents, end year $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning year $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Repurchases put warrants ( , ) \x96 \x96 Stock option income tax benefits , , , Other, net ( ) \x96 Balance, end year , , , Retained earnings Balance, beginning year , , , Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) \x96 \x96 Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) ( , ) , Translation adjustments and other ( ) Comprehensive income , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock dividends \x96 \x96 ( ) Balance, end year , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Accounting Policies Accounting Principles The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Principles Consolidation The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries (Microsoft). Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which own least % the voting securities are accounted for using the equity method, except for investments which the Company not able exercise significant influence over the investee, which case, the cost method accounting used. Estimates and Assumptions Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies and product life cycles, and assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrade enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited other comprehensive income (OCI). Revenue Recognition Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped, with portion the revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements including, some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the sales price those elements when sold separately (vendor-specific objective evidence) using the residual method. Under the residual method, the total fair value the undelivered elements, indicated vendor-specific objective evidence, recorded unearned, and the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount recorded unearned for the undelivered elements recognized revenue related delivered elements. Unearned revenue due undelivered elements recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle, which currently estimated three and half years for Windows operating systems and two years for desktop applications (primarily Office). Revenue from multi-year licensing arrangements are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include rights receive future versions software product when-and- -available basis under Open and Select volume licensing programs (currently named Software Assurance and, previously, Upgrade Advantage). addition, other multi-year licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis under Open, Select, and Enterprise Agreement volume licensing programs. MSN Internet Access subscriptions, Microsoft bCentral subscriptions, and Microsoft Developer Network subscriptions are also accounted for subscriptions. Revenue related our Xbox game console recognized upon shipment the product retailers. Online advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for developer tools software, games, computer hardware, and Xbox, are accrued when the related revenue recognized. Provisions are recorded for estimated returns, concessions, and bad debts. Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products and programs sold, operation costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. Research and Development Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs well expenses related advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. Financial Instruments consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Short-term investments generally mature between three months nine years from the purchase date. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments include debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. lend certain fixed income and equity securities enhance investment income. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. The fair value collateral that are permitted sell repledge was $ million both June , and . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, well our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. use derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, security price, interest rate, and credit risks. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the impact these exposures effectively possible. Foreign Currency Risk. Certain forecasted transactions and assets are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Non . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair value hedging instruments under SFAS . Options used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future are designated cash flow hedging instruments. Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies. Securities Price Risk. Strategic equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, use and designate options hedge fair values and cash flows certain equity securities. determine the security, forecasted sale thereof, selected for hedging market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Once established, the hedges are not dynamically managed traded, and are generally not removed until maturity. Interest Rate Risk. Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. use exchange-traded option and future contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , hedge interest rate risk. addition, routinely use options, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , hedge our exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Other Derivatives. Swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , are used manage exposures credit risks. addition, may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. Announced forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets are also considered derivatives cases where physical delivery the assets are not taken the earliest available delivery date. For options designated either fair value cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the account receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance beginning period Charged costs and expenses Write-offs and other Balance end period $ $ $ $ Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. Property and Equipment Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally three years less. Goodwill Beginning fiscal with the adoption SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. Prior fiscal , goodwill was amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated period benefit. Intangible Assets Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one ten years. periodically evaluate the recoverability intangible assets and take into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. All our intangible assets are subject amortization. Employee Stock Plans follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees, account for stock option and employee stock purchase plans, which generally does not require income statement recognition options granted the market price the date issuance. However, certain events, such the accelerated vesting options and the exchange options business combination, can trigger recording expense. addition announcing changes our employee compensation arrangements July , also indicated that will adopt the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, effective July , and will report that change accounting principle using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure . The following table illustrates the effect net income and earnings per share had applied the fair value recognition provisions SFAS : ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Net income, reported $ , $ , $ , Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included reported net income, net tax Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under fair value based method for all awards, net tax ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Pro forma net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic \x96 reported $ $ $ Basic \x96 pro forma $ $ $ Diluted \x96 reported $ $ $ Diluted \x96 pro forma $ $ $ Note \x97Stock Split February , outstanding shares our common stock were split two-for-one. All prior share and per share amounts have been restated reflect the stock split. Note \x97Accounting Changes Effective July , , adopted SFAS which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. The adoption SFAS July , , resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax / MSFT FORM - Part , Item reduction OCI $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. The net derivative losses included OCI July , were reclassified into earnings during the twelve months ended June , . The change accounting from the adoption SFAS did not materially affect net income . Effective July , , adopted SFAS , Business Combinations, and SFAS . SFAS requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separate from goodwill. SFAS requires that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. There was impairment goodwill upon adoption SFAS . Net income and earnings per share for fiscal adjusted exclude amortization expense (net taxes) follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Net income: Reported net income $ , Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization Adjusted net income $ , Basic earnings per share: Reported basic earnings per share $ Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization \x96 Adjusted basic earnings per share $ Diluted earnings per share: Reported diluted earnings per share $ Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization \x96 Adjusted diluted earnings per share $ Note \x97Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. For certain other licensing arrangements revenue attributable undelivered elements, including free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home, approximately % % the sales price for Windows Professional, and approximately % % the sales price for desktop applications, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and half years for Windows operating systems and two years for desktop applications. Unearned revenue also includes payments for online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed and payments for post-delivery support services performed the future. The components unearned revenue were follows: ( millions) June Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other Unearned revenue $ , $ , Unearned revenue segment was follows: ( millions) June Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Information Worker , , Other segments Unearned revenue $ , $ , / MSFT FORM - Part , Item the $ billion unearned revenue June , , $ billion expected recognized the first quarter fiscal , $ billion the second quarter fiscal , $ billion the third quarter fiscal , $ billion the fourth quarter fiscal , and $ billion thereafter. Note \x97Cash and Short-Term Investments ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis June , Cash and equivalents: Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , Commercial paper \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Money market mutual funds \x96 \x96 Corporate notes and bonds \x96 \x96 Municipal securities \x96 \x96 Cash and equivalents , \x96 \x96 , Short-term investments: Commercial paper \x96 \x97 . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , Municipal securities , \x96 , Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Short-term investments , ( ) , Cash and short-term investments $ , $ $ ( ) $ , ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis June , Cash and equivalents: Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , Commercial paper \x96 \x96 . government and agency securities , \x96 \x96 , Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Money market mutual funds , \x96 \x96 , Corporate notes and bonds ( ) Municipal securities \x96 \x96 Cash and equivalents , ( ) , Short-term investments: Commercial paper \x96 \x96 . government and agency securities , ( ) , Foreign government bonds , ( ) , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , Municipal securities , ( ) , Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Short-term investments , , ( ) , Cash and short-term investments $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Realized gains and (losses) from cash and short-term investments (excluding impairments) were $ million and $( ) million , $ million and $( ) million and $ billion and $( ) million . Note \x97Inventories ( millions) June Finished goods $ $ Raw materials and work process Inventories $ $ / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Note \x97Property and Equipment ( millions) June Land $ $ Buildings , , Computer equipment and software , , Other , , Property and equipment \x96 cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment \x96 net $ , $ , During , , and , depreciation expense, the majority which related computer equipment, was $ million, $ million, and $ million. Note \x97Equity and Other Investments ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis June , Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ $ \x96 $ Between and years ( ) Between and years ( ) Beyond years , \x96 \x96 , Debt securities recorded market , ( ) , Common stock and warrants , , ( ) , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 Equity and other investments $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis June , Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ $ \x96 $ Between and years , ( ) , Debt securities recorded market , ( ) , Common stock and warrants , , ( ) , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 Equity and other investments $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Debt securities include corporate and government notes and bonds and derivative securities. connection with the definitive agreement combine & Broadband with Comcast into new company called Comcast Corporation, Microsoft exchanged its & % convertible preferred debt for million shares Comcast Corporation November , , resulting $ million net recognized loss. Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. June , , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. Realized gains and (losses) from equity and other investments (excluding impairments) were $ billion and $( ) million , $ billion and $( ) million , and $ million and $( ) million . Note \x97Goodwill During fiscal , goodwill increased approximately $ billion. The increase related principally the following acquisitions: Navision with $ billion allocated Microsoft Business Solutions, $ million for the Rare, Ltd. acquisition allocated Home and Entertainment, and Placeware, Inc. with $ million allocated Information Worker. impairment was charged / MSFT FORM - Part , Item goodwill during fiscal . During fiscal , goodwill was reduced $ million, principally connection with our exchange all the million shares and warrants owned Expedia, Inc. USA Networks, Inc. goodwill was acquired impaired during fiscal . Goodwill segment was follows: ( millions) June Client $ $ Server and Tools Information Worker \x96 Microsoft Business Solutions , , MSN Mobile and Embedded Devices Home and Entertainment Goodwill $ , $ , Note \x97Intangible Assets During fiscal , recorded additions $ million intangible assets, primarily related the acquisition Navision and Rare, Ltd., with $ million allocated marketing related assets, $ million technology-based assets, $ million contract based assets, and $ million customer-related assets. Acquired intangibles are amortized over weighted average periods five years for contract-based assets, four years for technology-based assets, four years for marketing-related assets, and nine years for customer-related assets. significant residual value estimated for these assets. Through the fiscal year acquisitions, $ million was assigned research and development assets that were written off accordance with FASB Interpretation . (FIN ), Applicability FASB Statement . Business Combinations Accounted for the Purchase Method. Those write-offs are included Research and Development expenses. During fiscal , changes intangible assets primarily related our acquisition $ million contracts and $ million technology, which will amortized over approximately three years. significant residual value estimated for these intangible assets. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal and $ million for fiscal . The components intangible assets were follows: ( millions) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization June Contract-based $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Technology-based ( ) ( ) Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related \x96 \x96 ( ) Total Intangible Assets $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Amortization expense estimated $ million for fiscal , $ million for fiscal , $ million for fiscal , $ million for fiscal , and $ million for fiscal . Note \x97Derivatives For fiscal , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million gain for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million loss for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. For fiscal , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million gain for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million net loss for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. For fiscal , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million loss for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million gain for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income/(loss). estimate that $ million net derivative gains included other comprehensive income will reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. For instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS , had significant impact earnings for the fiscal years , , and . significant fair value hedges cash flow hedges were derecognized discontinued for fiscal years , , and . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Note \x97Investment Income/(Loss) The components investment income/(loss) are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Dividends $ $ $ Interest , , , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments: Net gains the sales investments , , Other-than-temporary impairments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net unrealized losses attributable derivative instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains/(losses) investments ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Other than temporary impairments were recorded follows for the three most recent fiscal years: ( millions) Year Ended June Due general market conditions $ , $ , $ Due specific adverse conditions , , Total Impairments $ , $ , $ , Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted : ( millions) Year Ended June Current taxes: . and state $ , $ , $ , International Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , . and international components income before income taxes were: ( millions) Year Ended June . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , , the effective tax rate was % and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for tax credits and % increase for other items. The effective tax rate was % and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for the extraterritorial income exclusion tax benefit and % reduction for other items. The effective tax rate was % and included the effect one-time benefit $ million from the reversal previously accrued taxes related favorable tax court ruling and % reduction from the . statutory rate for other items. Excluding this reversal, the effective tax rate would have been %. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Deferred income taxes were: ( millions) June Deferred income tax assets: Revenue items $ , $ , Expense items , Impaired investments , , Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: Unrealized gain investments $ ( ) $ ( , ) International earnings ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) have not provided for . deferred income taxes foreign withholding taxes $ billion our undistributed earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries, all which relate fiscal and earnings, because these earnings are intended reinvested indefinitely. September , , the . Tax Court issued adverse ruling with respect our claim that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) incorrectly assessed taxes for and . December , , the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals substantially reversed the . Tax Court decision. Income taxes, except for one issue remanded the . Tax Court the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals for additional consideration, have been settled with the IRS for all years through . The IRS examining our through . income tax returns. Management believes any adjustments which may required will not material the financial statements. Income taxes paid were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . Note \x97Stockholders\x92 Equity Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , repurchase our common shares primarily manage the dilutive effects our stock option and stock purchase plans, and other issuances common shares. , acquired million our shares result structured stock repurchase transaction entered into , which gave the right acquire such shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. enhance our stock repurchase program, have sold put warrants independent third parties. These put warrants entitled the holders sell shares our common stock certain dates specified prices. the third quarter fiscal , issued million shares settle portion the outstanding put warrants. June , , , and put warrants were outstanding. any period, cash used financing activities related common stock repurchased may differ from the comparable change Stockholders\x92 Equity, reflecting timing differences between the recognition share repurchase transactions and their settlement for cash. January , , our Board Directors declared annual dividend our common stock $ per share, payable March , shareholders record the close business February , . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Note \x97Other Comprehensive Income ( millions) Year Ended June Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax effect $( ) $ ( ) $ \x96 $ \x96 Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments: Unrealized gains/(losses), net tax effect $ , $ , and $( ) ( ) Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $ , $( ) , and $ ( ) Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/(losses): Unrealized holding gains/(losses), net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $ ( , ) ( , ) , Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $ , and $ ( ) , Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) ( , ) , Translation adjustments and other ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , The components accumulated other comprehensive income were: ( millions) June Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments $ $ ( ) Net unrealized investment gains , Translation adjustments and other ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income $ $ , Note \x97Employee Stock and Savings Plans Employee Stock Purchase Plan have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares our common stock may purchased six-month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During , , and employees purchased million, million shares and million shares average prices $ , $ , and $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. Savings Plan have savings plan, which qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Participating employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Stock Option and Stock Plans have stock option plan for directors and stock plan for officers, and employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options and the case the stock plan, stock awards. Options granted prior generally vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted during and after vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. have issued stock awards under the plan for officers and employees whereby employees earn actual shares stock. fiscal , the company granted million stock awards, which vest over five years. June , , stock options for million shares were vested and million shares were available for future grants under the plans. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Stock options outstanding were follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Price per Share Shares Range Weighted Average Balance, June , , $ \x96 $ $ Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , \x96 For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics outstanding stock options June , were follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Range Exercise Prices Shares Remaining Life (Years) Weighted Average Price Shares Weighted Average Price $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion account for stock option and employee stock purchase plans. alternative method accounting for stock options SFAS . Under SFAS , employee stock options are valued grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and this compensation cost recognized ratably over the vesting period. addition announcing changes our employee compensation arrangements July , also indicated that will adopt the fair value recognition provisions SFAS effective July , and will report that change accounting principle using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS . Had compensation cost for our stock option and employee stock purchase plans been determined prescribed SFAS , pro forma income statements for , , and would have been follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , , , , Research and development , , , , , , Sales and marketing , , , , , , General and administrative , , , , , Total operating expenses , , , , , , Operating income , , , , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) , , Income before income taxes , , , , , , Provision for income taxes , , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , , Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) ( ) \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ / MSFT FORM - Part , Item The weighted average Black-Scholes value options granted under the stock option plans during , , and was $ , $ , and $ . Value was estimated using weighted average expected life years and years and , dividends and , $ per share dividend , volatility ,. , and , and risk-free interest rates %, %, and % , , and . Note \x97Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding plus the effect outstanding put warrants using the \x93reverse treasury stock\x94 method and outstanding stock options using the \x93treasury stock\x94 method. The components basic and diluted earnings per share were follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Income before accounting change $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock , , , Dilutive effect : Put warrants \x96 \x96 Employee stock options Common stock and common stock equivalents , , , Earnings per share before accounting change: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ For the years ended June , , and ; million, million, and billion shares attributable outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the effect was antidilutive. Note \x97Acquisitions fiscal year ended June , , acquired all the outstanding equity interests Navision , Rare Ltd., and Placeware, Inc. Navision, headquartered Vedbaek, Denmark, provider integrated business solutions software for small and mid-sized businesses the European market and will play key role the future development the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. acquired Navision July , for $ billion consisting primarily $ million cash and the issuance million common shares Microsoft stock valued $ million. The value the common shares issued was determined based the average market price our common shares over the -day period before and after terms the acquisition were agreed and approved. Rare video game developer located outside Leicestershire, England, that expected broaden the portfolio games available for the Xbox video game system. Rare was acquired September , for $ million consisting primarily $ million cash. Placeware, located Mountain View, , facilitates secure, highly reliable, cross-firewall web conferencing experiences allowing users conduct business meetings online from , and will become part Microsoft\x92 Real Time Collaboration business unit within the Information Worker segment. Placeware was acquired April , for $ million, consisting primarily $ million cash. Navision, Rare, and Placeware have been consolidated into our financial statements since their respective acquisition dates. None the acquisitions, individually the aggregate, are material our consolidated results operations. Accordingly, pro forma financial information not included this note. The following table summarizes the estimated fair values the assets acquired and liabilities assumed the date the acquisitions ( millions): Navision July , Rare, Ltd. September , Placeware, Inc. April , Current assets $ $ $ Property, plant, and equipment Intangible assets Goodwill , Total assets acquired , Current Liabilities ( ) ( ) ( ) Long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 ( ) Total liabilities assumed ( ) ( ) ( ) Net Assets Acquired $ , $ $ the $ million acquired intangible assets the Navision acquisition, $ million was assigned research and development assets that were written off accordance with FIN . Those write-offs are included Research and Development expenses. The remaining $ million acquired intangible assets have weighted average useful life approximately five years. The intangible assets that make that amount include technology $ million (four-year weighted-average useful life), contracts $ million (six-year weighted-average useful life), and marketing $ million (three-year weighted-average useful / MSFT FORM - Part , Item life). The $ , million goodwill was assigned the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. that total amount, approximately $ million expected deductible for tax purposes. the $ million acquired intangible assets the Rare acquisition, $ million was assigned research and development assets that were written off accordance with FIN . Those write-offs are included Research and Development expenses. The remaining $ million acquired intangible assets have weighted average useful life approximately five years. The intangible assets that make that amount include technology $ million (five-year weighted average useful life), contracts $ million (five-year weighted average useful life), and marketing $ million (five-year weighted average useful life). The $ million goodwill was assigned the Home and Entertainment segment. that total amount, approximately $ million expected deductible for tax purposes. The $ million acquired intangible assets the Placeware acquisition have weighted average useful life approximately eight years. The intangible assets that make that amount include technology $ million (four-year weighted-average useful life), customers $ million (ten-year weighted-average useful life), contracts $ million (six-year weighted-average useful life), and marketing $ million (one-year weighted average useful life). The $ million goodwill was assigned the Information Worker segment. None the goodwill expected deductible for tax purposes. Note \x97Commitments and Guarantees have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases, millions dollars, are: , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; and thereafter, $ . have committed $ million for constructing new buildings. November , the FASB issued Interpretation , Guarantor\x92 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees Indebtedness Others (FIN ) . FIN elaborates previously existing disclosure requirements for most guarantees, including loan guarantees such standby letters credit. also clarifies that the time company issues guarantee, the company must recognize initial liability for the fair value, market value, the obligations assumes under the guarantee and must disclose that information its interim and annual financial statements. The provisions related recognizing liability inception the guarantee for the fair value the guarantor\x92 obligations does not apply product warranties guarantees accounted for derivatives. The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions apply prospective basis guarantees issued modified after December , . have unconditionally guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company (Jupiter). These guarantees arose February , conjunction with the expiration prior financing arrangements, including previous guarantees . The financing arrangements were entered into Jupiter part financing its operations. part Jupiter\x92 new financing agreement, agreed guarantee repayment Jupiter the loans approximately $ million. The estimated fair value and the carrying value the guarantees was $ million and did not result charge operations. The guarantees are effect until the earlier repayment the loans, including accrued interest and fees, February , . The maximum amount the guarantees limited the sum the total due and unpaid principal amounts, accrued and unpaid interest, and any other related expenses. Additionally, the maximum amount the guarantees, denominated Japanese yen, will vary based fluctuations foreign exchange rates. were required make payments under the guarantees, may recover all portion those payments upon liquidation the Jupiter\x92 assets. The proceeds from such liquidation cannot accurately estimated due the multitude factors that would affect the valuation and realization the proceeds the event liquidation. connection with various operating leases, issued residual value guarantees, which provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Our product warranty accrual reflects management\x92 best estimate probable liability under its product warranties (primarily relating the Xbox console). determine the warranty accrual based known product failures ( any), historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Changes the product warranty accrual for the fiscal year ended June , were follows ( millions): Balance, beginning period $ Payments made \x96 Change liability for warranties issued during the period Change liability for preexisting warranties ( ) Balance, end period $ Note \x97Contingencies are defendant . . Microsoft and New York . Microsoft , companion lawsuits filed the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice (DOJ) and group eighteen state Attorneys General alleging violations the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. After the trial, the District Court entered Findings Fact and Conclusions Law stating that had violated Sections and the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. Judgment was entered June , ordering, among / MSFT FORM - Part , Item other things, our breakup into two companies. The Judgment was stayed pending appeal. June , , the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit affirmed part, reversed part, and vacated the Judgment its entirety and remanded the case the District Court for new trial one Section claim and for entry new judgment consistent with its ruling. its ruling, the Court Appeals substantially narrowed the bases liability found the District Court, but affirmed some the District Court\x92 conclusions that had violated Section . entered into settlement with the United States November , . Nine states (New York, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina and Wisconsin) agreed settle substantially the same terms November , . November , , the Court approved the settlement being the public interest, conditioned upon the parties\x92 agreement modification one provision related the Court\x92 ongoing jurisdiction. Nine states and the District Columbia continued litigate the remedies phase New York . Microsoft . The non-settling states sought remedies that would have imposed much broader restrictions our business than the settlement with the DOJ and nine other states. November , , the Court entered Final Judgment this part the litigation that largely mirrored the settlement between , the DOJ and the settling states, with some modifications and different regime for enforcing compliance. The Court declined impose other and broader remedies sought the non-settling states. Two states, Massachusetts and West Virginia, appealed from this decision the trial court, and West Virginia dismissed its appeal part settlement with several other cases. The European Commission has instituted proceedings which alleges that have failed disclose information that our competitors claim they need interoperate fully with Windows clients and servers and that have engaged discriminatory licensing such technology, well improper bundling multimedia playback technology the Windows operating system. The remedies sought, though not fully defined, include mandatory disclosure our Windows operating system technology, either the removal Windows Media technology from Windows \x93must carry\x94 obligation requiring OEMs install competitive media players with Windows, and imposition fines amount that could large % our worldwide annual revenue. deny the European Commission\x92 allegations and intend contest the proceedings vigorously. other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state Attorneys General have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits have been filed against various state and Federal courts. The Federal cases have been consolidated the . District Court for Maryland. These cases allege that have competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications, and they seek recover behalf variously defined classes direct and indirect purchasers overcharges allegedly charged for these products. date, courts have dismissed all claims for damages against indirect purchasers under Federal law and different states. Nine those state court decisions have been affirmed appeal. Claims behalf foreign purchasers have also been dismissed. Appeals several these rulings are still pending. trials have been held concerning any liability issues. Courts ten states have ruled that these cases may proceed class actions, while courts two states have denied class certification status, and another court has ruled that class action available for antitrust claims that state. The Federal District Court has certified class direct purchasers our operating system software that acquired the software from the shop Microsoft com Web site pursuant direct marketing campaign and otherwise denied certification the proposed classes. Members the certified class licensed fewer than , copies operating system software from Microsoft. , reached agreement with counsel for the California plaintiffs settle all claims consolidated cases that state. Under the proposed settlement, class members will able obtain vouchers with total face value $ billion that may redeemed for cash against purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. Two-thirds the amount unclaimed unredeemed class members then will made available certain schools California the form vouchers that also may redeemed for cash against purchased wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware, software and related services. The court California preliminarily approved this proposed settlement, but still requires final approval the court. , also reached similar agreements settle all claims Montana, Florida, West Virginia and North Carolina. The total face value the Montana settlement $ million, the Florida settlement, $ million, the West Virginia settlement, $ million, and the North Carolina settlement, $ million. These proposed settlements are structured similar the California settlement, except that, among other differences, one-half the amounts unclaimed class members will made available certain schools Montana, Florida, West Virginia and North Carolina. The proposed settlements Montana, Florida and West Virginia have been preliminarily approved the courts those states, but still require final approval. The parties have filed motion for preliminary approval the settlement North Carolina and the Court has scheduled hearing for later this year. intend continue vigorously defending the remaining lawsuits. estimate the total cost resolve all these cases will range between $ million and $ billion with the actual cost dependent upon many unknown factors such the quantity and mix products for which claims will made, the number eligible class members who ultimately use the vouchers, the nature hardware and software that acquired using the vouchers, and the cost administering the claims process. accordance with SFAS and FIN , Reasonable Estimation the Amount Loss , the Company has recorded contingent liability $ million. Netscape Communications Inc., subsidiary AOL-Time Warner Inc., filed suit against January , . District Court for the District Columbia, alleging violations antitrust and unfair competition laws and other tort claims relating Netscape and its Navigator browser. The case was transferred for pretrial purposes the District Court Baltimore, Maryland and was being coordinated with the antitrust and unfair competition class actions described above. May , , and AOL Time Warner announced agreement settle the case. part the settlement, paid $ million AOL Time Warner and provided AOL Time Warner royalty-free, seven-year license use Microsoft Internet Explorer technologies with the AOL client. The parties agreed various other technical provisions and entered into separate agreement collaborate long-term digital media initiatives designed accelerate the adoption digital content. The two companies entered into long-term, non-exclusive license agreement allowing AOL Time Warner use our Windows Media Series and future software for creating, distributing and playing back high-quality digital media. result the settlement, the case has been dismissed with prejudice. Incorporated, former software development company whose assets were acquired Palm, Inc. August , filed suit against February , the . District Court for Northern California, alleging violations Federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws and other tort claims. alleges that our license agreements with computer manufacturers, pricing / MSFT FORM - Part , Item policies, and business practices interfered with \x92 relationships with computer manufacturers and discouraged them from adopting \x92 own operating system for their products. believe the total cost resolve this case will not material our financial position results operations. March , , Sun Microsystems, Inc. filed suit against alleging violations Federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws well claims under the Federal Copyright Act. Sun seeks injunctive relief and unspecified treble damages along with its fees and costs. deny these allegations and will vigorously defend this action. The case has been transferred for pretrial purposes the . District Court Baltimore, Maryland and being coordinated with the antitrust and unfair competition class actions described above. January , , the Court granted Sun\x92 motion for preliminary injunction and entered injunction requiring distribute certain Sun Java software with Microsoft Windows and certain other products. The injunction also prohibits from distributing our version Java software variety ways. The . Court Appeals for the Fourth Circuit granted our request for stay the preliminary injunction order. June , , three judge panel the Fourth Circuit issued unanimous opinion vacating the preliminary injunction requiring distribute Sun Java software and upheld the preliminary injunction prohibiting from distributing our version Java software certain ways. are the defendant more than patent infringement cases. Several these cases are approaching trial. the case Eolas Technologies, Inc. and University California . Microsoft , filed the . District Court for the Northern District Illinois February , , the plaintiffs accused the browser functionality Windows infringement. August , , the jury awarded the plaintiffs approximately $ million damages for infringement from the date the plaintiffs\x92 patent issued through September . The plaintiffs are seeking equitable accounting for damages from September the present. will appeal the jury award and any award the equitable accounting issue upon conclusion those aspects the case that remain completed before the trial court. While not currently possible estimate the range possible loss, believe the total cost resolve this case will not material our financial position results operations. However, the actual costs are dependent upon many unknown factors such the outcome issues remaining decided the trial court, success appeal, and the events retrial the case should the case remanded trial following appeal. The trial InterTrust . Microsoft , filed the . District Court for Northern California April , , anticipated . The plaintiff this case has accused large number products, including Windows and Office, infringement. each Eolas and InterTrust , injunctive relief also may awarded that could adversely impact distribution Windows Office. Adverse outcomes some all the pending cases may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against . are also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. While management currently believes that resolving all these matters, individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position our results operations, the litigation and other claims noted above are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. Were unfavorable final outcome occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect becomes reasonably estimable. Note \x97Segment Information ( millions) Year Ended June Revenue Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Information Worker , , Microsoft Business Solutions MSN , , Mobile and Embedded Devices Home and Entertainment , , Reconciling Amounts ( ) Consolidated Revenue $ , $ , Operating Income/(Loss) Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Information Worker , , Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) ( ) MSN ( ) ( ) Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) ( ) Home and Entertainment ( ) ( ) Reconciling Amounts ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated Operating Income/(Loss) $ , $ , Segment information presented accordance with SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information. This standard based management approach, which requires segmentation based upon our internal organization and reporting revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. Our financial reporting systems present various data for management run the business, including internal profit and loss statements ( & ) prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and / MSFT FORM - Part , Item impracticable for the Company separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. July , , revised our segments. These changes are designed promote better alignment strategies and objectives between development, sales, marketing, and services organizations; provide for more timely and rational allocation development, sales, and marketing resources within businesses; and focus long-term planning efforts key objectives and initiatives. Our seven new segments are: Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. Prior year segment information has been restated conform the seven new segments. not practical discern operating income for for the current segments operating income for for the previous segments due reorganizations. The segments are designed allocate resources internally and provide framework determine management responsibility. Due our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments, and therefore these segments are not designed measure operating income loss directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and incent shared efforts. Management will continually evaluate the alignment development, sales organizations, and inter-segment commissions for segment reporting purposes, which may result changes segment allocations future periods. The Client segment includes revenue and operating expenses associated with Windows , Windows , and other standard Windows operating systems. Server and Tools segment consists revenue and operating expenses associated with server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and other servers. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier product support services, and Microsoft consulting services. Information Worker segment includes Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Visio, other information worker products, SharePoint Portal Server CALs, allocation for CALs, and professional product support services. Microsoft Business Solutions includes Microsoft Great Plains, Navision, and bCentral. MSN includes MSN Subscription and MSN Network services. Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded device operating systems, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. Home and Entertainment includes the Xbox video game system, games, consumer software and hardware, and platform. Reconciling amounts include adjustments state revenue and operating income accordance with . GAAP and corporate level expenses not specifically attributed segment. For revenue, reconciling items include certain undelivered elements unearned revenue and allowances for certain sales returns and rebates. Reconciling items for operating income/(loss) include general and administrative expenses ($ billion and $ billion ), broad-based research and development expenses ($ million and $ million ), and certain corporate level sales and marketing costs ($ million and $ million ). The internal segment operating income loss also includes non-GAAP accelerated methods depreciation and amortization. Additionally, losses equity investees and minority interest are classified operating income for internal reporting presentations. Revenue attributable . operations includes shipments customers the United States, licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations, and exports finished goods, primarily Asia, Latin America, and Canada. Revenue from . operations totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Revenue from outside the United States, excluding licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations and . exports, totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . single customer accounted for % more revenue , , . Long-lived assets (principally property and equipment) totaled $ billion and $ billion the United States and and $ million, and $ million other countries and . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item QUARTERLY INFORMATION ( millions, except earnings per share) (Unaudited) Quarter Ended Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , Basic earnings per share ( ) ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ) ( ) Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ) Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Earnings per share have been restated reflect two-for-one stock split February . ( ) Includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per basic share and diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . . ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. and $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item INDEPENDENT AUDITORS\x92 REPORT the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Corporation\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. described Note the financial statements, the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , effective July , , and Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , effective July , . / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Deloitte & Touche LLP Seattle, Washington July , (September , certain information Note ) / MSFT FORM - Part , Item , , Part III, Item , , , , ITEM . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. ITEM . Controls and Procedures Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting. PART III ITEM . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption \x93Election Directors and Management Information\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Such information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Controller and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website www microsoft com msft. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature such amendment waiver that website report Form - . ITEM . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation\x94 and \x93Information Regarding the Board and its Committees \x96 Director Compensation\x94 incorporated herein reference. ITEM . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 and \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 incorporated herein reference. ITEM . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the captions \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ITEM . Principal Accounting Fees and Services Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the proxy statement under the heading \x93Fees Paid Deloitte & Touche LLP\x94 and incorporated herein reference. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item PART ITEM . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Annual Report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - did not file any reports Form - during the quarter ended June , . furnished the SEC reports Form - April , and May , . The April , Form - was for the purpose furnishing the press release announcing our financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March , . The May , Form - was for the purpose furnishing our consolidated balance sheets June , and March , , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for the three and nine months ended March , and formatted XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language). ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan, amended and restated Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\x92 Consent Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act . Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . / MSFT FORM - SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . ICROSOFT ORPORATION : / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title / / ILLIAM . ATES III William . Gates III Chairman the Board Directors and Chief Software Architect / / TEVEN . ALLMER Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer / / AMES . ASH , ., . James . Cash, ., . Director / / AYMOND . ILMARTIN Raymond . Gilmartin Director / / AUGHLIN OROLOGOS Ann McLaughlin Korologos Director / / AVID . ARQUARDT David . Marquardt Director / / . . EED , . . . Reed, . Director / / . HIRLEY Jon . Shirley Director / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) / MSFT FORM -', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington, which million square feet corporate campus space situated slightly more than acres land which owned and approximately million square feet which leased. are constructing one building with approximately , square feet space that will occupied the second quarter fiscal year . accommodate future expansion needs purchased approximately acres, and have option purchase approximately additional acres, land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet additional office space. own approximately , square feet office building space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. lease many sites internationally totaling approximately million square feet, including our European Operations Center and localization division that leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and , square-foot facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; United Kingdom campus , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; Vedbaek, Denmark , square feet; Mississauga, Canada , square feet; Taipei, Taiwan , square feet; Sydney, Australia , square feet; and Beijing, China , square feet. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings See Note \x97Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding legal proceedings. ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers September , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates III Chairman, Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer James . Allchin Group Vice President, Platforms Group Robert . (Robbie) Bach Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment Douglas . Burgum Senior Vice President, Microsoft Business Solutions David . Cole Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group John . Connors Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois Senior Vice President, Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Kenneth . DiPietro Corporate Vice President, Human Resources Kevin . Johnson Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services Michelle (Mich) Mathews Corporate Vice President, Marketing Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President, Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services Eric . Rudder Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary David Vaskevitch Senior Vice President, Chief Technical Officer, Business Platforms . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman since our incorporation. . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms Group December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity and Vice President, Desktop Applications Marketing since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Burgum joined the Company upon Microsoft\x92 acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. April . . Burgum became Great Plains\x92 first outside investor March . was named President Great Plains and subsequently named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. . Cole was named Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group November . Before holding that position, had been Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division since August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December and Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . Previously, was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Connors was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer December . had been Vice President, Worldwide Enterprise Group since March . . Connors had been Vice President, Information Technology Group, and Chief Information Officer since July . joined Microsoft . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa March . had been Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Worldwide Customer Marketing since July . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . DiPietro joined Microsoft January Corporate Vice President, Human Resources. Prior joining Microsoft, was Vice President Human Resources for the Americas Dell Computer Corporation. Before joining Dell, was Senior Vice President Human Resources Pepsi-Cola International. . Johnson was named Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services March . had been Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas since February . . Johnson had been Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August , and before that, Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. joined Microsoft . . Mathews was named Corporate Vice President, Marketing August . Before holding her current position, . Mathews had been Vice President Corporate Public Relations since . . Mathews joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services August . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Rudder was named Senior Vice President, Developer and Platform Evangelism October . had been Vice President, Technical Strategy. . Rudder joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary November . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing our European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . . Vaskevitch was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Business Platform August . had been Senior Vice President, Business Applications since March . . Vaskevitch had been Senior Vice President, Developer since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Distributed Applications Platform. joined Microsoft . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item , , PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\x92 Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal Common stock price per share ( ) : High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal Common stock price per share ( ) : High $ $ $ $ $ Low ( ) Amounts have been restated reflect two-for-one stock split February . January , our Board Directors declared our first annual common stock dividend, $ per share, which was paid March . Our dividend policy impacted , among other items, our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. connection with Microsoft\x92 acquisition Navision , pursuant voluntary offer acquire all Navision ordinary shares, Microsoft issued million shares its common stock Navision shareholders July , , exchange for million Navision ordinary shares, nominal value DKK per share. The price paid Microsoft connection with the offer was DKK per each Navision share, payable each Navision shareholder\x92 election either cash Microsoft shares, the basis exchange ratio shares Microsoft common stock for each Navision ordinary share. These issuances Microsoft common stock were not registered under the Securities Act the basis the exemption provided Rule thereunder. Rule exempts offers and sales exchange offer for class securities foreign private issuer business combination transaction, certain conditions are met. Since the completion the acquisition, have issued , shares our common stock employees exchange for , ordinary shares Navision that were acquired upon exercise warrants and stock options issued employees Navision and its subsidiaries that were outstanding the time the acquisition. The issuances were not registered under the Securities Act. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data Financial Highlights ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June ( ) ( ) ( ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share before accounting change ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ) Cash dividends per share \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , ( ) Earnings per share have been restated reflect two-for-one stock split February . ( ) Fiscal year includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . , and $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments, primarily cable and telecommunication investments. ( ) Fiscal year includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments, primarily related our & investment and further declines the fair values European cable and telecommunications holdings, and $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. ( ) Fiscal year includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Results Operations for , , and Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis ( & ) contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because factors discussed \x93Issues and Uncertainties\x94 and elsewhere this report. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item REVENUE Our revenue growth rate was % fiscal , % fiscal , and % fiscal . Revenue growth fiscal was driven primarily multi-year licensing that occurred before the transition our new licensing program (Licensing ) the first quarter fiscal . Prior the July , transition date Licensing , experienced significant growth multi-year licensing arrangements customers enrolled our maintenance programs, including Upgrade Advantage and Software Assurance. The revenue growth also reflected $ million % increase associated with OEM licensing Microsoft Windows operating systems and $ million % increase revenue from Microsoft Xbox video game consoles. Revenue growth fiscal was led the addition $ billion Xbox video game system revenue and $ billion revenue growth from Microsoft Windows Professional and Home operating systems. Revenue growth fiscal was driven primarily licensing Microsoft Windows Professional with $ billion growth revenue from Professional operating systems, and Server and Tools revenue growth $ million. During the second quarter fiscal , launched new licensing program, Licensing , for volume licensing customers. Licensing simplifies and improves our volume licensing program with Software Assurance, which gives customers the right install any new release products covered the licensing agreement during the term their coverage. The level customer adoption our new volume licensing programs will affect the mix multi-year licensing agreements with resulting impact the timing revenue recognition. addition, the timing and extent recovery consumer and corporate spending PCs and information technology will factors affecting revenue growth. CONSOLIDATED OPERATING INCOME Operating income grew % fiscal , % fiscal , and % fiscal . fiscal , the growth operating income reflected increase $ billion revenue, partially offset increase $ billion operating expenses, primarily related employee and related costs associated with additional headcount and increased legal settlement expenses. fiscal , the growth operating income reflected increase $ billion revenue, substantially offset increase $ billion operating expenses, which included the onset costs related Xbox video game systems. fiscal , the growth operating income reflected increase $ billion revenue, partially offset increase $ billion operating expenses. SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) revised our segments for fiscal year . Our seven segments are: · Client · Server and Tools · Information Worker · Microsoft Business Solutions · MSN · Mobile and Embedded Devices · Home and Entertainment The revenue and operating income/(loss) amounts this & are presented accordance with . GAAP. Segment Information appearing Note the Notes Financial Statements are presented accordance with SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . The following table presents our segment revenue and operating income, determined accordance with . GAAP: ( millions) Revenue Operating Income/(Loss) Year Ended June Client $ , $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , , Information Worker , , , , Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) ( ) MSN , , ( ) ( ) Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) ( ) Home and Entertainment , , ( ) ( ) Other \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , $ , Client Client revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Client includes revenue from Windows Professional and Home, Windows Professional, and other standard Windows operating systems. , Client revenue growth was driven OEM licensing revenue growth $ million and percentage point increase the mix the higher priced Windows Professional operating systems, the majority which was the OEM channel. Windows Professional revenue growth for fiscal was $ billion % compared fiscal , partially offset $ million decline revenue / MSFT FORM - Part , Item earlier versions Windows operating systems. Client operating profit for fiscal increased % primarily result the % growth revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses, largely attributed headcount additions and related costs. fiscal , the growth Client revenue reflected strong multi-year licensing revenue growth and continued shift sales the higher priced Windows and Windows Professional operating system licensed through OEMs. OEM revenue grew $ million, despite % decline reported OEM unit shipments. Fiscal revenue growth reflected the strong adoption Windows Professional with professional operating systems revenue growth $ billion and percentage point mix increase the higher priced Windows Professional and Windows Workstation operating systems, and $ million increase revenue from Windows and Windows operating systems. not expect the revenue growth attributed the mix toward the higher priced Windows Professional operating system continue previous levels into fiscal . Additionally, variability between the reported OEM unit shipments and the underlying Market may continue result the transition new OEM licensing terms the beginning fiscal year , under which OEMs are billed upon their acquisition Certificates Authenticity (COAs) rather than upon the shipment PCs their customers. Server and Tools Server and Tools revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Server and Tools consists server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and other servers. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier product support services, and Microsoft consulting services. Total Server and Tools revenue grew $ million % fiscal , driven increase Windows-based server shipments and growth SQL Server and Exchange revenue. Server revenue, including CALs, grew $ million % from fiscal result increased new and anniversary multi-year licensing agreements. Consulting and Premier product support services increased $ million % compared fiscal . Revenue from developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press and other services increased $ million %. Server operating profit for fiscal grew %, primarily result the % increase revenue. fiscal , Server and Tools revenue increased % compared fiscal . Server revenue, including CALs, increased % versus fiscal , driven % overall increase Windows-based server shipments and increased deployment Windows Server. Consulting and Premier product support services revenue was $ million % compared fiscal , while revenue from developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press and other services was down $ million % from fiscal . fiscal , Server and Tools revenue increased $ million % versus the prior year, result the continued adoption the Microsoft Enterprise Server offerings. Information Worker Information Worker revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Information Worker includes revenue from Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Visio, other information worker products, SharePoint Portal Server CALs, and professional product support services. The $ billion % increase Information Worker revenue fiscal year compared fiscal , was primarily due growth Office suites revenue associated with new and anniversary multi-year licensing agreements and $ million % increase revenue from the combined total Project, Visio, and other standalone applications. Information Worker operating profit for fiscal year grew % compared fiscal year led the % increase revenue, partially offset % growth operating expenses related headcount additions and marketing expenses. fiscal , Information Worker licensing revenue declined $ million % during the year due shift the sales mix multi-year licensing agreements, which deferred revenue recognition future years, and $ million % decrease consumer purchases the Asia-Pacific region, most notably Japan, partially offset $ million % growth OEM licensing revenue. fiscal , Information Worker revenue growth was less than % $ million. Microsoft Business Solutions Microsoft Business Solutions revenue was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Microsoft Business Solutions includes Microsoft Great Plains, Navision, and bCentral. Microsoft Business Solutions revenue for fiscal grew $ million from fiscal , which $ million was attributable the acquisition Navision the beginning the fiscal year. Microsoft Business Solutions operating loss for fiscal increased %, primarily due operating losses associated with Navision, increases sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, and acquisition related costs. MSN MSN revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . MSN includes MSN Subscriptions and MSN Network services. Although total MSN subscribers the end fiscal were flat compared the end fiscal , MSN Subscriptions revenue grew $ million % fiscal year reflecting increase the number non-promotion subscribers. MSN Network services revenue grew $ million % fiscal result growth paid search and strong general advertising sales across all geographic regions. MSN operating loss for fiscal decreased %, primarily result the growth revenue and lower relative subscription acquisition and support costs. fiscal , MSN Subscriptions revenue increased $ million % result both higher subscriber base and higher average revenue per subscriber due reduction promotional subscriber programs. Revenue from MSN Network services increased $ million % led online advertising. fiscal , revenue from MSN Network services grew $ million % led online advertising. MSN Subscriptions revenue also grew $ million % from fiscal result increased subscriber base, partially offset decline the average revenue per subscriber due larger mix subscribers contracted under rebate programs. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Mobile and Embedded Devices Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded device operating systems, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. Revenue for fiscal grew $ million driven increased Pocket shipments and MapPoint licensing. Operating loss for fiscal was flat with the prior year higher marketing expenses and headcount-related costs associated with product development offset the growth revenue. Prior year revenue and operating loss for Mobile and Embedded Devices have been restated reflect the reorganizations MapPoint from Information Worker and Windows embedded device operating systems from Client Mobile and Embedded Devices. Home and Entertainment Home and Entertainment revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Home & Entertainment includes the Xbox video game system, games, consumer software and hardware, and platform. Home and Entertainment revenue increased $ million, result sales Xbox video game systems and related games which were available for all fiscal . Xbox revenue grew $ million % fiscal reflecting $ million increase from higher volumes for Xbox consoles, games, and peripherals partially offset $ million decrease due price changes. Revenue from consumer hardware and software and games declined $ million % fiscal . Operating loss for fiscal increased % from the prior year the product costs associated with the increased Xbox console sales and increased marketing expense more than offset the % increase revenue. fiscal , Home and Entertainment revenue growth from fiscal stemmed from $ billion sales the Xbox video game system released fiscal . Learning and productivity software revenue and and online games declined $ million % fiscal compared fiscal . fiscal , Home and Entertainment revenue declined $ million % from fiscal . Other Revenue the Other segment represents our majority ownership Expedia, Inc., which was sold February , resulting decline revenue from fiscal . Acquisitions Travelscape com and VacationSpot com Expedia, Inc. fiscal and increased product offerings from Expedia led the strong revenue growth fiscal . Operating loss includes Expedia, Inc. revenue and operating expenses, general and administrative expenses ($ billion and $ billion ), broad-based research and development expenses ($ million and $ million ), and certain corporate level sales and marketing costs ($ million and $ million ). Foreign Currencies Impact Our operating results are affected foreign exchange rates. Approximately %, %, and % our revenue was collected foreign currencies during , , and . Had the rates from fiscal been effect fiscal , translated international revenue billed local currencies would have been approximately $ million lower. Certain manufacturing, selling distribution and support costs are disbursed local currencies, and portion international revenue hedged, thus offsetting portion the translation exposure. OPERATING EXPENSES Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products and programs sold, operation costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. Cost revenue percent revenue was % , % , and % . For fiscal , cost revenue was $ billion compared $ billion fiscal . The primary driver the decrease percentage revenue fiscal was percentage point decrease from Home and Entertainment products due lower volumes and improved margins Xbox video game consoles and percentage point decrease from MSN product and service costs fiscal compared fiscal . Cost revenue fiscal was $ billion compared $ billion fiscal . The increase percentage revenue fiscal was due increase percentage points from Home and Entertainment primarily due costs related Xbox, partially offset percentage point decrease due higher mix revenue from licensing business. fiscal , cost revenue was $ billion, increase $ million compared fiscal . The higher sales associated with MSN Subscription and MSN Network services resulting increased support and service costs drove the percentage point increase total costs percentage revenue. Research and Development Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Research and development expenses for fiscal were $ billion, increase % compared fiscal . The increase reflects % increase headcount-related costs, % increase third-party product development costs, and % increase testing laboratory equipment and expense. fiscal , research and development expenses were $ billion compared $ billion fiscal . The decrease from fiscal was due the discontinuation amortization goodwill accordance with SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, $ million which offset the % growth headcount-related costs. fiscal , research and development expenses were $ billion, increase % compared fiscal . The increase research and development expenses resulted from % increase headcount-related costs and % increase investments new product development. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other programs. Sales and marketing expense percentage revenue was % , % , and % . Sales and marketing expenses were $ billion , compared $ billion fiscal . The increase absolute dollars was due % increase sales expenses related headcount additions, principally related the Enterprise and Small Medium Business sales forces, and % increase marketing expenses. fiscal , sales and marketing expenses were $ billion, increase % from fiscal . The sales and marketing expenses absolute dollars increased due % increase headcount-related costs partially offset % decline MSN customer acquisition marketing costs and % decline all other marketing costs. fiscal , sales and marketing expenses were $ billion compared $ billion fiscal . The % increase sales and marketing from fiscal was primarily due % growth headcount-related costs, and lesser extent, % growth higher marketing and sales expenses associated with MSN and other new sales initiatives. General and Administrative General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs associated with the finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources, other administrative headcount, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative costs fiscal increased $ million due charge $ million related settlement with AOL Time Warner the fourth quarter and also due $ million charge reflecting increase our estimate costs related resolving pending state antitrust and unfair competition consumer class action lawsuits. General and administrative expenses fiscal increased due charge approximately $ million for estimated expenses related resolving pending state antitrust and unfair competition consumer class action lawsuits and % increase headcount-related costs. fiscal , general and administrative costs decreased due lawsuit settlement charge recorded fiscal , partially offset % growth headcount-related costs. NON-OPERATING ITEMS, INVESTMENT INCOME/(LOSS), AND INCOME TAXES Non-operating items Losses equity investees and other consist our share income loss from investments accounted for using the equity method, and income loss attributable minority interests. The decrease losses equity investees and other fiscal and was due the divestiture certain equity investments fiscal conjunction with the underlying performance such entities. The increase losses equity investees and other fiscal reflected increase the number such investments during the year. Investment Income/(Loss) recorded net investment income/(loss) each year follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Dividends $ $ $ Interest , , , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments: Net gains the sales investments , , Other-than-temporary impairments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net unrealized losses attributable derivative instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains/(losses) investments ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, well our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments decreased mainly due the lack significant continued impairments the cable and telecommunications sectors. Interest income decreased $ million due declining interest rates partially offset larger investment portfolio. Dividend income decreased $ million primarily related the exchange & % convertible preferred debt for common shares & Corporation during the year. fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments primarily related our investment & and other cable and telecommunication investments. Net gains the sales investments included $ billion gain sale our share Expedia. Interest and dividend income decreased $ million from fiscal result lower interest rates and dividend income. fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments primarily related cable and telecommunication investments. Net gains from the sales investments fiscal included gain from our investment Titus Communications (which was merged with Jupiter Telecommunications) and the closing the sale Transpoint CheckFree Holdings Corp. Interest and dividend income increased $ million from fiscal , reflecting larger investment portfolio. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for fiscal was %, reflecting one-time benefit the second quarter $ million from the reversal previously accrued taxes. The tax reversal stems from 9th Circuit Court Appeals ruling December overturning previous Tax Court ruling that had denied tax benefits certain revenue earned from the distribution software foreign customers. Excluding this reversal, the effective tax rate would have been %. The effective tax rate for fiscal and fiscal was % and %, respectively. ACCOUNTING CHANGES Effective July , , adopted SFAS , Business Combinations, and SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . SFAS requires business combinations accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separate from goodwill. SFAS requires that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. There was impairment goodwill upon adoption SFAS . Goodwill amortization ( pre-tax basis) was $ million fiscal . Effective July , , adopted SFAS , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. The adoption SFAS resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax reduction other comprehensive income (OCI) $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset the reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION July , , announced changes employee compensation designed help continue attract and retain the best employees, and better align employee interests with those our shareholders. Employees will granted Stock Awards instead stock options. The Stock Award program offers employees the opportunity earn actual shares our stock over time, rather than options that give employees the right purchase stock set price. part the changes, announced that significant portion stock-based compensation for more than our senior leaders will depend growth the number and satisfaction our customers. also indicated that are working plan enable employees realize some value the portion their stock options that are currently out- -the-money, selling their options third-party financial institution. approved, expect implement this plan the end . addition announcing changes our employee compensation arrangements, also indicated that will adopt the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, effective July , , and will report that change accounting principle using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure . Note the Notes the Financial Statements provides pro forma income statements for , , and compensation cost for our stock option and employee stock purchase plans had been determined prescribed SFAS . FINANCIAL CONDITION Our cash and short-term investment portfolio totaled $ billion June , , increase $ billion from fiscal year . The portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions, order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. Unearned revenue June , was $ billion, increasing $ billion from June , , reflecting the addition new and anniversary multi-year licensing agreements, partially offset continued recognition unearned revenue from multi-year licensing prior periods. Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . The increase reflects $ billion increase net income from fiscal year and increase $ billion unearned revenue, offset increase $ billion recognition unearned revenue. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ million from the prior year. The increase reflects cash dividend payment $ million and increase $ million common stock repurchase, offsetting $ million received for common stock issued. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from fiscal , due stronger portfolio performance sold and matured investments. Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . The increase reflected strong growth unearned revenue result the significant number customers that purchased Upgrade Advantage during the Licensing transition period. This resulted increase billings and corresponding increase the unearned revenue amount. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from the prior year. The decrease reflected the repurchase put warrants the prior year. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal . addition, million shares common stock were acquired fiscal under structured stock repurchase transaction. entered into the structured stock repurchase transaction fiscal , which gave the right acquire million our shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Cash flow from operations was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable the growth revenue and other changes working capital, partially offset decrease the stock option income tax benefit, reflecting decreased stock option exercises employees. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from the prior year. The increase primarily reflected the repurchase put warrants fiscal , compared the sale put warrants the prior fiscal year, well increase common stock repurchased. All outstanding put warrants were either retired exercised during fiscal . During fiscal , repurchased million shares. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ million from the prior year. have material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for & , sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. believe existing cash and short-term investments together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and short-term investments, well equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. continuously assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-balance sheet arrangements have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases, millions dollars, are: , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; and thereafter, $ . have unconditionally guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company (Jupiter). These guarantees arose February , conjunction with the expiration prior financing arrangements, including previous guarantees . The financing arrangements were entered into Jupiter part financing its operations. part Jupiter\x92 new financing agreement, agreed guarantee repayment Jupiter the loans approximately $ million. The estimated fair value and the carrying value the guarantees was $ million and did not result charge operations. The guarantees are effect until the earlier repayment the loans, including accrued interest and fees, February , . The maximum amount the guarantees limited the sum the total due and unpaid principal amounts, accrued and unpaid interest, and any other related expenses. Additionally, the maximum amount the guarantees, denominated Japanese yen, will vary based fluctuations foreign exchange rates. were required make payments under the guarantees, may recover all portion those payments upon liquidation Jupiter\x92 assets. The proceeds from such liquidation cannot accurately estimated due the multitude factors that would affect the valuation and realization the proceeds the event liquidation. connection with various operating leases, issued residual value guarantees, which provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS January , the FASB issued Interpretation , Consolidation Variable Interest Entities. general, variable interest entity corporation, partnership, trust, any other legal structure used for business purposes that either ( ) does not have equity investors with voting rights ( ) has equity investors that not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity support its activities. Interpretation requires variable interest entity consolidated company that company subject majority the risk loss from the variable interest entity\x92 activities entitled receive majority the entity\x92 residual returns both. The consolidation requirements Interpretation apply immediately variable interest entities created after January , . The consolidation requirements apply transactions entered into prior February , the first fiscal year interim period beginning after June , . Certain the disclosure requirements apply all financial statements issued after January , , regardless when the variable interest entity was established. The adoption the Interpretation July , did not have material impact our financial statements. April , the FASB issued SFAS , Amendment Statement Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , which amends and clarifies accounting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts, and for hedging activities under SFAS . The Statement effective (with certain exceptions) for contracts entered into modified after June , . not believe the adoption this Statement will have material impact our financial statements. May , the FASB issued SFAS , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics both Liabilities and Equity. The Statement establishes standards for how issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with / MSFT FORM - Part , Item characteristics both liabilities and equity. requires that issuer classify financial instrument that within its scope liability ( asset some circumstances). effective for financial instruments entered into modified after May , , and otherwise effective the beginning the first interim period beginning after June , . While not believe the adoption this Statement will have material impact our financial statements, continue assess the impact this Statement will have certain our share repurchase programs. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, and accounting for income taxes. account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Software Revenue Recognition. The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) fair value exists for those elements. End users receive certain elements our products over period time. These elements include free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, the fair value which recognized over the product\x92 estimated life cycle. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities , and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities , provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, evaluate, among other factors, the duration and extent which the fair value investment less than its cost; the financial health and near-term business outlook for the investee, including factors such industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow; and our intent and ability hold the investment. SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (July for Microsoft) and between annual tests certain circumstances. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities reporting units, assigning goodwill reporting units, and determining the fair value each reporting unit. Significant judgments required estimate the fair value reporting units include estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates and other assumptions. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. account for research and development costs accordance with several accounting pronouncements, including SFAS , Accounting for Research and Development Costs , and SFAS , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed. SFAS specifies that costs incurred internally creating computer software product should charged expense when incurred research and development until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. are subject various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes which are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies , requires that estimated loss from loss contingency should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial position our results operations. SFAS , Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Fluctuations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position our results operations. ISSUES AND UNCERTAINTIES This Annual Report Form - contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because issues and uncertainties such those listed below and elsewhere this report, which, among others, should considered evaluating our financial outlook. Challenges our Business Model Since our inception, our business model has been based upon customers agreeing pay fee license software developed and distributed . Under this commercial software model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenues received from the distribution their products. believe the commercial software model has had substantial benefits for users software, allowing them rely our expertise and the expertise other software developers that have powerful incentives develop / MSFT FORM - Part , Item innovative software that useful, reliable, and compatible with other software and hardware. recent years, there has been growing challenge the commercial software model, often referred the Open Source model. Under the Open Source model, software produced loosely associated groups unpaid programmers, and the resulting software and the intellectual property contained therein licensed end users substantially cost. The most notable example Open Source software the Linux operating system. While believe that our products provide customers with significant advantages security and productivity, and generally have lower total cost ownership than Open Source software, the popularization the Open Source model continues pose significant challenge our business model, including recent efforts proponents the Open Source model convince governments worldwide mandate the use Open Source software their purchase and deployment software products. the extent the Open Source model gains increasing market acceptance, sales our products may decline, may have reduce the prices charge for our products, and revenues and operating margins may consequently decline. Intellectual Property Rights defend our intellectual property rights, but unlicensed copying and use software and intellectual property rights represents loss revenue . While this adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the United States more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits licensing genuine products and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may not affect revenue positively and further deterioration compliance with existing legal protections reductions the legal protection for intellectual property rights software developers could adversely affect revenue. From time time receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow. Responding these claims may require enter into royalty and licensing agreements unfavorable terms, require stop selling redesign affected products, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. have made and expect continue making significant expenditures acquire the use technology and intellectual property rights, including via cross-licenses broad patent portfolios. New Products and Services have made significant investments research, development and marketing for new products, services and technologies, including Microsoft NET, Xbox, business applications, MSN, mobile and wireless technologies, and television. Significant revenue from new product and service investments may not achieved for number years, all. Moreover, these products and services may never profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for these businesses are not expected high the margins historically experienced . Litigation discussed Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements, are subject variety claims and lawsuits. While believe that none the litigation matters which are currently involved will have material adverse impact our financial position results operations, possible that one more these matters could resolved manner that ultimately would have material adverse impact our business, and could negatively impact our revenues, operating margins, and net income. Declines Demand for Software overall market demand for PCs, servers and other computing devices declines significantly, consumer corporate spending for such products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. Additionally, our revenues would unfavorably impacted customers reduce their purchases new software products upgrades existing products because new product offerings are not perceived adding significant new functionality other value prospective purchasers. significant number customers purchased license agreements providing upgrade rights specific licensed products prior the transition Licensing July . These agreements will expire and and the rate which such customers renew these contracts could adversely affect future revenues. are also committing significant investments the next release the Windows operating system, codenamed Longhorn. this system not perceived offering significant new functionality value prospective purchasers, our revenues and operating margins could adversely affected. Product Development Schedule The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new product releases significant problems creating new products, particularly any delays the Longhorn operating system, could adversely affect our revenues. General Economic and Geo-Political Risks Continued softness corporate information technology spending other changes general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenues. Terrorist activity and armed conflict pose the additional risk general economic disruption and could require changes our international operations and security arrangements, thus increasing our operating costs. These conditions lend additional uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Competition continue experience intensive competition across all markets for our products and services. These competitive pressures may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives, resulting lower revenues, gross margins and operating income. Taxation Extraterritorial Income August , World Trade Organization (\x93WTO\x94) dispute panel determined that the tax provisions the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act (\x93ETI\x94) constitute export subsidy prohibited the WTO Agreement Subsidies / MSFT FORM - Part , Item , and Countervailing Measures. The . government appealed the panel\x92 decision and lost its appeal. the ETI provisions are repealed and financially comparable replacement tax legislation not enacted, the loss the ETI tax benefit could significant. Other Potential Tax Liabilities are subject income taxes both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. are regularly under audit tax authorities. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different than that which reflected historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes assessed result audit litigation, material effect our income tax provision and net income the period periods for which that determination made could result. Finite Insurance Programs addition conventional third party insurance arrangements, have entered into captive insurance arrangements for the purpose protecting against possible catastrophic and other risks not covered traditional insurance markets. June , , potential coverage available under captive insurance arrangements was $ billion, subject deductibles, exclusions, and other restrictions. While believe these arrangements are effective way insure against such risks, the potential liabilities associated with certain the issues and uncertainties discussed herein could exceed the coverage provided such arrangements. Other Other issues and uncertainties may include: · warranty and other claims for hardware products such Xbox; · the effects the Consent Decree . . Microsoft and Final Judgment State New York . Microsoft the Windows operating system and server business, including those associated with protocol and other disclosures required the Decree and Final Judgment and the ability manufacturers hide end user access certain new Windows features; · the continued availability third party distribution channels for MSN service and other online services; · factors associated with our international operations, described under International Operations Part , Item this report; and · financial market volatility other changes affecting the value our investments, such the Comcast Corporation securities held , that may result reduction carrying value and recognition losses including impairment charges. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are exposed foreign currency, interest rate, and fixed income and equity price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results operations and financial position. hedge portion anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed income securities are subject interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and structured minimize credit risk. routinely use options hedge portion our exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject price risk, and are generally not hedged. However, use options hedge our price risk certain highly volatile equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. use value- -risk (VAR) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VAR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. The model used for currencies and equities geometric Brownian motion, which allows incorporation optionality with regard these risk exposures. For interest rate risk, the mean reverting geometric Brownian motion used reflect the principle that fixed-income securities prices revert maturity value over time. Value- -risk calculated , first, simulating , market price paths over days for equities, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, taking into account historical correlations among the different rates and prices. Each resulting unique set equities prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates applied substantially all individual holdings -price each holding. The worst performance (out , ) represents the value- -risk over days the percentile confidence level. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. Certain securities our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. hedge the value portion these securities through the use derivative contracts such put-call collars. these arrangements, hedge security\x92 market risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most all the benefits the security\x92 appreciation above the sold call strike, exchange for premium received for the sold call. also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. have incurred material impairment charges related these securities. The VAR amounts disclosed below are used risk management tool and reflect estimate potential reductions fair value our portfolio. Losses fair value over -day holding period can exceed the reported VAR significant amounts and can also accumulate over longer time horizon than the -day holding period used the VAR analysis. VAR amounts are not necessarily reflective potential accounting losses, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with . GAAP. The VAR numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency, and equity risks. These VAR numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. use historical data estimate VAR. Given reliance historical data, VAR most effective estimating risk exposures markets which there are fundamental changes shifts market conditions. inherent limitation VAR that the distribution past changes market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions future market risk. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item , The following table sets forth the VAR calculations for substantially all our positions: ( millions) June Year ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Interest rates $ $ $ $ $ Currency rates $ $ $ $ $ Equity prices $ $ $ $ , $ The total VAR for the combined risk categories $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VAR % less June , and % less June, than the sum the separate risk categories for each those years the above table, due the diversification benefit the combination risks. The reasons for the change risk portfolios include: larger investment portfolio size, asset allocation shifts, and changes foreign exchange exposures relative the . dollar. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) ( ) ( ) , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Income before accounting change , , , Cumulative effect accounting change (net income taxes $ ) ( ) \x96 \x96 Net income $ , $ , $ , Basic earnings per share ( ) : Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) \x96 \x96 $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share ( ) : Before accounting change $ $ $ Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) \x96 \x96 $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding ( ) : Basic , , , Diluted , , , ( ) Earnings per share and weighted average shares outstanding have been restated reflect two-for-one stock split February . See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventories Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net Other long-term assets , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Deferred income taxes , Other long-term liabilities , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; Shares issued and outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ and $ , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax \x96 \x96 Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , , Net recognized losses investments , , Stock option income tax benefits , , , Deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( ) ( , ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities , Other long-term liabilities Net cash from operations , , , Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases put warrants ( , ) \x96 \x96 Common stock dividends \x96 \x96 ( ) Other, net \x96 \x96 Net cash used for financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( , ) ( ) ( ) Acquisitions companies, net cash acquired \x96 \x96 ( , ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Net cash used for investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net change cash and equivalents ( ) ( ) , Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning year , , , Cash and equivalents, end year $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning year $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Repurchases put warrants ( , ) \x96 \x96 Stock option income tax benefits , , , Other, net ( ) \x96 Balance, end year , , , Retained earnings Balance, beginning year , , , Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) \x96 \x96 Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) ( , ) , Translation adjustments and other ( ) Comprehensive income , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock dividends \x96 \x96 ( ) Balance, end year , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Accounting Policies Accounting Principles The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Principles Consolidation The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries (Microsoft). Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which own least % the voting securities are accounted for using the equity method, except for investments which the Company not able exercise significant influence over the investee, which case, the cost method accounting used. Estimates and Assumptions Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies and product life cycles, and assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrade enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited other comprehensive income (OCI). Revenue Recognition Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped, with portion the revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements including, some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the sales price those elements when sold separately (vendor-specific objective evidence) using the residual method. Under the residual method, the total fair value the undelivered elements, indicated vendor-specific objective evidence, recorded unearned, and the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount recorded unearned for the undelivered elements recognized revenue related delivered elements. Unearned revenue due undelivered elements recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle, which currently estimated three and half years for Windows operating systems and two years for desktop applications (primarily Office). Revenue from multi-year licensing arrangements are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include rights receive future versions software product when-and- -available basis under Open and Select volume licensing programs (currently named Software Assurance and, previously, Upgrade Advantage). addition, other multi-year licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis under Open, Select, and Enterprise Agreement volume licensing programs. MSN Internet Access subscriptions, Microsoft bCentral subscriptions, and Microsoft Developer Network subscriptions are also accounted for subscriptions. Revenue related our Xbox game console recognized upon shipment the product retailers. Online advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for developer tools software, games, computer hardware, and Xbox, are accrued when the related revenue recognized. Provisions are recorded for estimated returns, concessions, and bad debts. Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products and programs sold, operation costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. Research and Development Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs well expenses related advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. Financial Instruments consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Short-term investments generally mature between three months nine years from the purchase date. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments include debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. lend certain fixed income and equity securities enhance investment income. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. The fair value collateral that are permitted sell repledge was $ million both June , and . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, well our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. use derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, security price, interest rate, and credit risks. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the impact these exposures effectively possible. Foreign Currency Risk. Certain forecasted transactions and assets are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Non . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair value hedging instruments under SFAS . Options used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future are designated cash flow hedging instruments. Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies. Securities Price Risk. Strategic equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, use and designate options hedge fair values and cash flows certain equity securities. determine the security, forecasted sale thereof, selected for hedging market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Once established, the hedges are not dynamically managed traded, and are generally not removed until maturity. Interest Rate Risk. Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. use exchange-traded option and future contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , hedge interest rate risk. addition, routinely use options, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , hedge our exposure interest rate risk the event catastrophic increase interest rates. Other Derivatives. Swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , are used manage exposures credit risks. addition, may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. Announced forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets are also considered derivatives cases where physical delivery the assets are not taken the earliest available delivery date. For options designated either fair value cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the account receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance beginning period Charged costs and expenses Write-offs and other Balance end period $ $ $ $ Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. Property and Equipment Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally three years less. Goodwill Beginning fiscal with the adoption SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. Prior fiscal , goodwill was amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated period benefit. Intangible Assets Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one ten years. periodically evaluate the recoverability intangible assets and take into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. All our intangible assets are subject amortization. Employee Stock Plans follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees, account for stock option and employee stock purchase plans, which generally does not require income statement recognition options granted the market price the date issuance. However, certain events, such the accelerated vesting options and the exchange options business combination, can trigger recording expense. addition announcing changes our employee compensation arrangements July , also indicated that will adopt the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, effective July , and will report that change accounting principle using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure . The following table illustrates the effect net income and earnings per share had applied the fair value recognition provisions SFAS : ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Net income, reported $ , $ , $ , Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included reported net income, net tax Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under fair value based method for all awards, net tax ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Pro forma net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic \x96 reported $ $ $ Basic \x96 pro forma $ $ $ Diluted \x96 reported $ $ $ Diluted \x96 pro forma $ $ $ Note \x97Stock Split February , outstanding shares our common stock were split two-for-one. All prior share and per share amounts have been restated reflect the stock split. Note \x97Accounting Changes Effective July , , adopted SFAS which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded other contracts and for hedging activities. The adoption SFAS July , , resulted cumulative pre-tax reduction income $ million ($ million after-tax) and cumulative pre-tax / MSFT FORM - Part , Item reduction OCI $ million ($ million after-tax). The reduction income was mostly attributable loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for the time value options and loss approximately $ million reclassified from OCI for derivatives not designated hedging instruments. The reduction OCI was mostly attributable losses approximately $ million cash flow hedges offset reclassifications out OCI the approximately $ million loss for the time value options and the approximately $ million loss for derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. The net derivative losses included OCI July , were reclassified into earnings during the twelve months ended June , . The change accounting from the adoption SFAS did not materially affect net income . Effective July , , adopted SFAS , Business Combinations, and SFAS . SFAS requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting. also specifies the types acquired intangible assets that are required recognized and reported separate from goodwill. SFAS requires that goodwill and certain intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. There was impairment goodwill upon adoption SFAS . Net income and earnings per share for fiscal adjusted exclude amortization expense (net taxes) follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Net income: Reported net income $ , Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization Adjusted net income $ , Basic earnings per share: Reported basic earnings per share $ Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization \x96 Adjusted basic earnings per share $ Diluted earnings per share: Reported diluted earnings per share $ Goodwill amortization Equity method goodwill amortization \x96 Adjusted diluted earnings per share $ Note \x97Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. For certain other licensing arrangements revenue attributable undelivered elements, including free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home, approximately % % the sales price for Windows Professional, and approximately % % the sales price for desktop applications, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and half years for Windows operating systems and two years for desktop applications. Unearned revenue also includes payments for online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed and payments for post-delivery support services performed the future. The components unearned revenue were follows: ( millions) June Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other Unearned revenue $ , $ , Unearned revenue segment was follows: ( millions) June Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Information Worker , , Other segments Unearned revenue $ , $ , / MSFT FORM - Part , Item the $ billion unearned revenue June , , $ billion expected recognized the first quarter fiscal , $ billion the second quarter fiscal , $ billion the third quarter fiscal , $ billion the fourth quarter fiscal , and $ billion thereafter. Note \x97Cash and Short-Term Investments ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis June , Cash and equivalents: Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , Commercial paper \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Money market mutual funds \x96 \x96 Corporate notes and bonds \x96 \x96 Municipal securities \x96 \x96 Cash and equivalents , \x96 \x96 , Short-term investments: Commercial paper \x96 \x97 . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , Municipal securities , \x96 , Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Short-term investments , ( ) , Cash and short-term investments $ , $ $ ( ) $ , ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis June , Cash and equivalents: Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , Commercial paper \x96 \x96 . government and agency securities , \x96 \x96 , Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Money market mutual funds , \x96 \x96 , Corporate notes and bonds ( ) Municipal securities \x96 \x96 Cash and equivalents , ( ) , Short-term investments: Commercial paper \x96 \x96 . government and agency securities , ( ) , Foreign government bonds , ( ) , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , Municipal securities , ( ) , Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 Short-term investments , , ( ) , Cash and short-term investments $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Realized gains and (losses) from cash and short-term investments (excluding impairments) were $ million and $( ) million , $ million and $( ) million and $ billion and $( ) million . Note \x97Inventories ( millions) June Finished goods $ $ Raw materials and work process Inventories $ $ / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Note \x97Property and Equipment ( millions) June Land $ $ Buildings , , Computer equipment and software , , Other , , Property and equipment \x96 cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment \x96 net $ , $ , During , , and , depreciation expense, the majority which related computer equipment, was $ million, $ million, and $ million. Note \x97Equity and Other Investments ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis June , Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ $ \x96 $ Between and years ( ) Between and years ( ) Beyond years , \x96 \x96 , Debt securities recorded market , ( ) , Common stock and warrants , , ( ) , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 Equity and other investments $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis June , Debt securities recorded market, maturing: Within one year $ $ $ \x96 $ Between and years , ( ) , Debt securities recorded market , ( ) , Common stock and warrants , , ( ) , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 Equity and other investments $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Debt securities include corporate and government notes and bonds and derivative securities. connection with the definitive agreement combine & Broadband with Comcast into new company called Comcast Corporation, Microsoft exchanged its & % convertible preferred debt for million shares Comcast Corporation November , , resulting $ million net recognized loss. Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. June , , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. Realized gains and (losses) from equity and other investments (excluding impairments) were $ billion and $( ) million , $ billion and $( ) million , and $ million and $( ) million . Note \x97Goodwill During fiscal , goodwill increased approximately $ billion. The increase related principally the following acquisitions: Navision with $ billion allocated Microsoft Business Solutions, $ million for the Rare, Ltd. acquisition allocated Home and Entertainment, and Placeware, Inc. with $ million allocated Information Worker. impairment was charged / MSFT FORM - Part , Item goodwill during fiscal . During fiscal , goodwill was reduced $ million, principally connection with our exchange all the million shares and warrants owned Expedia, Inc. USA Networks, Inc. goodwill was acquired impaired during fiscal . Goodwill segment was follows: ( millions) June Client $ $ Server and Tools Information Worker \x96 Microsoft Business Solutions , , MSN Mobile and Embedded Devices Home and Entertainment Goodwill $ , $ , Note \x97Intangible Assets During fiscal , recorded additions $ million intangible assets, primarily related the acquisition Navision and Rare, Ltd., with $ million allocated marketing related assets, $ million technology-based assets, $ million contract based assets, and $ million customer-related assets. Acquired intangibles are amortized over weighted average periods five years for contract-based assets, four years for technology-based assets, four years for marketing-related assets, and nine years for customer-related assets. significant residual value estimated for these assets. Through the fiscal year acquisitions, $ million was assigned research and development assets that were written off accordance with FASB Interpretation . (FIN ), Applicability FASB Statement . Business Combinations Accounted for the Purchase Method. Those write-offs are included Research and Development expenses. During fiscal , changes intangible assets primarily related our acquisition $ million contracts and $ million technology, which will amortized over approximately three years. significant residual value estimated for these intangible assets. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal and $ million for fiscal . The components intangible assets were follows: ( millions) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization June Contract-based $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Technology-based ( ) ( ) Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related \x96 \x96 ( ) Total Intangible Assets $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Amortization expense estimated $ million for fiscal , $ million for fiscal , $ million for fiscal , $ million for fiscal , and $ million for fiscal . Note \x97Derivatives For fiscal , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million gain for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million loss for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. For fiscal , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million gain for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million net loss for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. For fiscal , investment income included net unrealized loss $ million, comprised $ million loss for changes the time value options for fair value hedges, $ million loss for changes the time value options for cash flow hedges, and $ million gain for changes the fair value derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income/(loss). estimate that $ million net derivative gains included other comprehensive income will reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. For instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS , had significant impact earnings for the fiscal years , , and . significant fair value hedges cash flow hedges were derecognized discontinued for fiscal years , , and . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Note \x97Investment Income/(Loss) The components investment income/(loss) are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Dividends $ $ $ Interest , , , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments: Net gains the sales investments , , Other-than-temporary impairments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net unrealized losses attributable derivative instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains/(losses) investments ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Other than temporary impairments were recorded follows for the three most recent fiscal years: ( millions) Year Ended June Due general market conditions $ , $ , $ Due specific adverse conditions , , Total Impairments $ , $ , $ , Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted : ( millions) Year Ended June Current taxes: . and state $ , $ , $ , International Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , . and international components income before income taxes were: ( millions) Year Ended June . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , , the effective tax rate was % and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for tax credits and % increase for other items. The effective tax rate was % and included the effect % reduction from the . statutory rate for the extraterritorial income exclusion tax benefit and % reduction for other items. The effective tax rate was % and included the effect one-time benefit $ million from the reversal previously accrued taxes related favorable tax court ruling and % reduction from the . statutory rate for other items. Excluding this reversal, the effective tax rate would have been %. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Deferred income taxes were: ( millions) June Deferred income tax assets: Revenue items $ , $ , Expense items , Impaired investments , , Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: Unrealized gain investments $ ( ) $ ( , ) International earnings ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) have not provided for . deferred income taxes foreign withholding taxes $ billion our undistributed earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries, all which relate fiscal and earnings, because these earnings are intended reinvested indefinitely. September , , the . Tax Court issued adverse ruling with respect our claim that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) incorrectly assessed taxes for and . December , , the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals substantially reversed the . Tax Court decision. Income taxes, except for one issue remanded the . Tax Court the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals for additional consideration, have been settled with the IRS for all years through . The IRS examining our through . income tax returns. Management believes any adjustments which may required will not material the financial statements. Income taxes paid were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . Note \x97Stockholders\x92 Equity Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , repurchase our common shares primarily manage the dilutive effects our stock option and stock purchase plans, and other issuances common shares. , acquired million our shares result structured stock repurchase transaction entered into , which gave the right acquire such shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. enhance our stock repurchase program, have sold put warrants independent third parties. These put warrants entitled the holders sell shares our common stock certain dates specified prices. the third quarter fiscal , issued million shares settle portion the outstanding put warrants. June , , , and put warrants were outstanding. any period, cash used financing activities related common stock repurchased may differ from the comparable change Stockholders\x92 Equity, reflecting timing differences between the recognition share repurchase transactions and their settlement for cash. January , , our Board Directors declared annual dividend our common stock $ per share, payable March , shareholders record the close business February , . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Note \x97Other Comprehensive Income ( millions) Year Ended June Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax effect $( ) $ ( ) $ \x96 $ \x96 Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments: Unrealized gains/(losses), net tax effect $ , $ , and $( ) ( ) Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $ , $( ) , and $ ( ) Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/(losses): Unrealized holding gains/(losses), net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $ ( , ) ( , ) , Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $ , and $ ( ) , Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) ( , ) , Translation adjustments and other ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , The components accumulated other comprehensive income were: ( millions) June Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments $ $ ( ) Net unrealized investment gains , Translation adjustments and other ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income $ $ , Note \x97Employee Stock and Savings Plans Employee Stock Purchase Plan have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares our common stock may purchased six-month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During , , and employees purchased million, million shares and million shares average prices $ , $ , and $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. Savings Plan have savings plan, which qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Participating employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Stock Option and Stock Plans have stock option plan for directors and stock plan for officers, and employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options and the case the stock plan, stock awards. Options granted prior generally vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted during and after vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. have issued stock awards under the plan for officers and employees whereby employees earn actual shares stock. fiscal , the company granted million stock awards, which vest over five years. June , , stock options for million shares were vested and million shares were available for future grants under the plans. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item Stock options outstanding were follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Price per Share Shares Range Weighted Average Balance, June , , $ \x96 $ $ Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , \x96 For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics outstanding stock options June , were follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Range Exercise Prices Shares Remaining Life (Years) Weighted Average Price Shares Weighted Average Price $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion account for stock option and employee stock purchase plans. alternative method accounting for stock options SFAS . Under SFAS , employee stock options are valued grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and this compensation cost recognized ratably over the vesting period. addition announcing changes our employee compensation arrangements July , also indicated that will adopt the fair value recognition provisions SFAS effective July , and will report that change accounting principle using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS . Had compensation cost for our stock option and employee stock purchase plans been determined prescribed SFAS , pro forma income statements for , , and would have been follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma Reported Pro Forma Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , , , , Research and development , , , , , , Sales and marketing , , , , , , General and administrative , , , , , Total operating expenses , , , , , , Operating income , , , , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) , , Income before income taxes , , , , , , Provision for income taxes , , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , , Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) ( ) \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ $ / MSFT FORM - Part , Item The weighted average Black-Scholes value options granted under the stock option plans during , , and was $ , $ , and $ . Value was estimated using weighted average expected life years and years and , dividends and , $ per share dividend , volatility ,. , and , and risk-free interest rates %, %, and % , , and . Note \x97Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding plus the effect outstanding put warrants using the \x93reverse treasury stock\x94 method and outstanding stock options using the \x93treasury stock\x94 method. The components basic and diluted earnings per share were follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Income before accounting change $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock , , , Dilutive effect : Put warrants \x96 \x96 Employee stock options Common stock and common stock equivalents , , , Earnings per share before accounting change: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ For the years ended June , , and ; million, million, and billion shares attributable outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the effect was antidilutive. Note \x97Acquisitions fiscal year ended June , , acquired all the outstanding equity interests Navision , Rare Ltd., and Placeware, Inc. Navision, headquartered Vedbaek, Denmark, provider integrated business solutions software for small and mid-sized businesses the European market and will play key role the future development the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. acquired Navision July , for $ billion consisting primarily $ million cash and the issuance million common shares Microsoft stock valued $ million. The value the common shares issued was determined based the average market price our common shares over the -day period before and after terms the acquisition were agreed and approved. Rare video game developer located outside Leicestershire, England, that expected broaden the portfolio games available for the Xbox video game system. Rare was acquired September , for $ million consisting primarily $ million cash. Placeware, located Mountain View, , facilitates secure, highly reliable, cross-firewall web conferencing experiences allowing users conduct business meetings online from , and will become part Microsoft\x92 Real Time Collaboration business unit within the Information Worker segment. Placeware was acquired April , for $ million, consisting primarily $ million cash. Navision, Rare, and Placeware have been consolidated into our financial statements since their respective acquisition dates. None the acquisitions, individually the aggregate, are material our consolidated results operations. Accordingly, pro forma financial information not included this note. The following table summarizes the estimated fair values the assets acquired and liabilities assumed the date the acquisitions ( millions): Navision July , Rare, Ltd. September , Placeware, Inc. April , Current assets $ $ $ Property, plant, and equipment Intangible assets Goodwill , Total assets acquired , Current Liabilities ( ) ( ) ( ) Long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 ( ) Total liabilities assumed ( ) ( ) ( ) Net Assets Acquired $ , $ $ the $ million acquired intangible assets the Navision acquisition, $ million was assigned research and development assets that were written off accordance with FIN . Those write-offs are included Research and Development expenses. The remaining $ million acquired intangible assets have weighted average useful life approximately five years. The intangible assets that make that amount include technology $ million (four-year weighted-average useful life), contracts $ million (six-year weighted-average useful life), and marketing $ million (three-year weighted-average useful / MSFT FORM - Part , Item life). The $ , million goodwill was assigned the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. that total amount, approximately $ million expected deductible for tax purposes. the $ million acquired intangible assets the Rare acquisition, $ million was assigned research and development assets that were written off accordance with FIN . Those write-offs are included Research and Development expenses. The remaining $ million acquired intangible assets have weighted average useful life approximately five years. The intangible assets that make that amount include technology $ million (five-year weighted average useful life), contracts $ million (five-year weighted average useful life), and marketing $ million (five-year weighted average useful life). The $ million goodwill was assigned the Home and Entertainment segment. that total amount, approximately $ million expected deductible for tax purposes. The $ million acquired intangible assets the Placeware acquisition have weighted average useful life approximately eight years. The intangible assets that make that amount include technology $ million (four-year weighted-average useful life), customers $ million (ten-year weighted-average useful life), contracts $ million (six-year weighted-average useful life), and marketing $ million (one-year weighted average useful life). The $ million goodwill was assigned the Information Worker segment. None the goodwill expected deductible for tax purposes. Note \x97Commitments and Guarantees have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases, millions dollars, are: , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; and thereafter, $ . have committed $ million for constructing new buildings. November , the FASB issued Interpretation , Guarantor\x92 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees Indebtedness Others (FIN ) . FIN elaborates previously existing disclosure requirements for most guarantees, including loan guarantees such standby letters credit. also clarifies that the time company issues guarantee, the company must recognize initial liability for the fair value, market value, the obligations assumes under the guarantee and must disclose that information its interim and annual financial statements. The provisions related recognizing liability inception the guarantee for the fair value the guarantor\x92 obligations does not apply product warranties guarantees accounted for derivatives. The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions apply prospective basis guarantees issued modified after December , . have unconditionally guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company (Jupiter). These guarantees arose February , conjunction with the expiration prior financing arrangements, including previous guarantees . The financing arrangements were entered into Jupiter part financing its operations. part Jupiter\x92 new financing agreement, agreed guarantee repayment Jupiter the loans approximately $ million. The estimated fair value and the carrying value the guarantees was $ million and did not result charge operations. The guarantees are effect until the earlier repayment the loans, including accrued interest and fees, February , . The maximum amount the guarantees limited the sum the total due and unpaid principal amounts, accrued and unpaid interest, and any other related expenses. Additionally, the maximum amount the guarantees, denominated Japanese yen, will vary based fluctuations foreign exchange rates. were required make payments under the guarantees, may recover all portion those payments upon liquidation the Jupiter\x92 assets. The proceeds from such liquidation cannot accurately estimated due the multitude factors that would affect the valuation and realization the proceeds the event liquidation. connection with various operating leases, issued residual value guarantees, which provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Our product warranty accrual reflects management\x92 best estimate probable liability under its product warranties (primarily relating the Xbox console). determine the warranty accrual based known product failures ( any), historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Changes the product warranty accrual for the fiscal year ended June , were follows ( millions): Balance, beginning period $ Payments made \x96 Change liability for warranties issued during the period Change liability for preexisting warranties ( ) Balance, end period $ Note \x97Contingencies are defendant . . Microsoft and New York . Microsoft , companion lawsuits filed the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice (DOJ) and group eighteen state Attorneys General alleging violations the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. After the trial, the District Court entered Findings Fact and Conclusions Law stating that had violated Sections and the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. Judgment was entered June , ordering, among / MSFT FORM - Part , Item other things, our breakup into two companies. The Judgment was stayed pending appeal. June , , the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit affirmed part, reversed part, and vacated the Judgment its entirety and remanded the case the District Court for new trial one Section claim and for entry new judgment consistent with its ruling. its ruling, the Court Appeals substantially narrowed the bases liability found the District Court, but affirmed some the District Court\x92 conclusions that had violated Section . entered into settlement with the United States November , . Nine states (New York, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina and Wisconsin) agreed settle substantially the same terms November , . November , , the Court approved the settlement being the public interest, conditioned upon the parties\x92 agreement modification one provision related the Court\x92 ongoing jurisdiction. Nine states and the District Columbia continued litigate the remedies phase New York . Microsoft . The non-settling states sought remedies that would have imposed much broader restrictions our business than the settlement with the DOJ and nine other states. November , , the Court entered Final Judgment this part the litigation that largely mirrored the settlement between , the DOJ and the settling states, with some modifications and different regime for enforcing compliance. The Court declined impose other and broader remedies sought the non-settling states. Two states, Massachusetts and West Virginia, appealed from this decision the trial court, and West Virginia dismissed its appeal part settlement with several other cases. The European Commission has instituted proceedings which alleges that have failed disclose information that our competitors claim they need interoperate fully with Windows clients and servers and that have engaged discriminatory licensing such technology, well improper bundling multimedia playback technology the Windows operating system. The remedies sought, though not fully defined, include mandatory disclosure our Windows operating system technology, either the removal Windows Media technology from Windows \x93must carry\x94 obligation requiring OEMs install competitive media players with Windows, and imposition fines amount that could large % our worldwide annual revenue. deny the European Commission\x92 allegations and intend contest the proceedings vigorously. other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state Attorneys General have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits have been filed against various state and Federal courts. The Federal cases have been consolidated the . District Court for Maryland. These cases allege that have competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications, and they seek recover behalf variously defined classes direct and indirect purchasers overcharges allegedly charged for these products. date, courts have dismissed all claims for damages against indirect purchasers under Federal law and different states. Nine those state court decisions have been affirmed appeal. Claims behalf foreign purchasers have also been dismissed. Appeals several these rulings are still pending. trials have been held concerning any liability issues. Courts ten states have ruled that these cases may proceed class actions, while courts two states have denied class certification status, and another court has ruled that class action available for antitrust claims that state. The Federal District Court has certified class direct purchasers our operating system software that acquired the software from the shop Microsoft com Web site pursuant direct marketing campaign and otherwise denied certification the proposed classes. Members the certified class licensed fewer than , copies operating system software from Microsoft. , reached agreement with counsel for the California plaintiffs settle all claims consolidated cases that state. Under the proposed settlement, class members will able obtain vouchers with total face value $ billion that may redeemed for cash against purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. Two-thirds the amount unclaimed unredeemed class members then will made available certain schools California the form vouchers that also may redeemed for cash against purchased wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware, software and related services. The court California preliminarily approved this proposed settlement, but still requires final approval the court. , also reached similar agreements settle all claims Montana, Florida, West Virginia and North Carolina. The total face value the Montana settlement $ million, the Florida settlement, $ million, the West Virginia settlement, $ million, and the North Carolina settlement, $ million. These proposed settlements are structured similar the California settlement, except that, among other differences, one-half the amounts unclaimed class members will made available certain schools Montana, Florida, West Virginia and North Carolina. The proposed settlements Montana, Florida and West Virginia have been preliminarily approved the courts those states, but still require final approval. The parties have filed motion for preliminary approval the settlement North Carolina and the Court has scheduled hearing for later this year. intend continue vigorously defending the remaining lawsuits. estimate the total cost resolve all these cases will range between $ million and $ billion with the actual cost dependent upon many unknown factors such the quantity and mix products for which claims will made, the number eligible class members who ultimately use the vouchers, the nature hardware and software that acquired using the vouchers, and the cost administering the claims process. accordance with SFAS and FIN , Reasonable Estimation the Amount Loss , the Company has recorded contingent liability $ million. Netscape Communications Inc., subsidiary AOL-Time Warner Inc., filed suit against January , . District Court for the District Columbia, alleging violations antitrust and unfair competition laws and other tort claims relating Netscape and its Navigator browser. The case was transferred for pretrial purposes the District Court Baltimore, Maryland and was being coordinated with the antitrust and unfair competition class actions described above. May , , and AOL Time Warner announced agreement settle the case. part the settlement, paid $ million AOL Time Warner and provided AOL Time Warner royalty-free, seven-year license use Microsoft Internet Explorer technologies with the AOL client. The parties agreed various other technical provisions and entered into separate agreement collaborate long-term digital media initiatives designed accelerate the adoption digital content. The two companies entered into long-term, non-exclusive license agreement allowing AOL Time Warner use our Windows Media Series and future software for creating, distributing and playing back high-quality digital media. result the settlement, the case has been dismissed with prejudice. Incorporated, former software development company whose assets were acquired Palm, Inc. August , filed suit against February , the . District Court for Northern California, alleging violations Federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws and other tort claims. alleges that our license agreements with computer manufacturers, pricing / MSFT FORM - Part , Item policies, and business practices interfered with \x92 relationships with computer manufacturers and discouraged them from adopting \x92 own operating system for their products. believe the total cost resolve this case will not material our financial position results operations. March , , Sun Microsystems, Inc. filed suit against alleging violations Federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws well claims under the Federal Copyright Act. Sun seeks injunctive relief and unspecified treble damages along with its fees and costs. deny these allegations and will vigorously defend this action. The case has been transferred for pretrial purposes the . District Court Baltimore, Maryland and being coordinated with the antitrust and unfair competition class actions described above. January , , the Court granted Sun\x92 motion for preliminary injunction and entered injunction requiring distribute certain Sun Java software with Microsoft Windows and certain other products. The injunction also prohibits from distributing our version Java software variety ways. The . Court Appeals for the Fourth Circuit granted our request for stay the preliminary injunction order. June , , three judge panel the Fourth Circuit issued unanimous opinion vacating the preliminary injunction requiring distribute Sun Java software and upheld the preliminary injunction prohibiting from distributing our version Java software certain ways. are the defendant more than patent infringement cases. Several these cases are approaching trial. the case Eolas Technologies, Inc. and University California . Microsoft , filed the . District Court for the Northern District Illinois February , , the plaintiffs accused the browser functionality Windows infringement. August , , the jury awarded the plaintiffs approximately $ million damages for infringement from the date the plaintiffs\x92 patent issued through September . The plaintiffs are seeking equitable accounting for damages from September the present. will appeal the jury award and any award the equitable accounting issue upon conclusion those aspects the case that remain completed before the trial court. While not currently possible estimate the range possible loss, believe the total cost resolve this case will not material our financial position results operations. However, the actual costs are dependent upon many unknown factors such the outcome issues remaining decided the trial court, success appeal, and the events retrial the case should the case remanded trial following appeal. The trial InterTrust . Microsoft , filed the . District Court for Northern California April , , anticipated . The plaintiff this case has accused large number products, including Windows and Office, infringement. each Eolas and InterTrust , injunctive relief also may awarded that could adversely impact distribution Windows Office. Adverse outcomes some all the pending cases may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against . are also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. While management currently believes that resolving all these matters, individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position our results operations, the litigation and other claims noted above are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. Were unfavorable final outcome occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect becomes reasonably estimable. Note \x97Segment Information ( millions) Year Ended June Revenue Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Information Worker , , Microsoft Business Solutions MSN , , Mobile and Embedded Devices Home and Entertainment , , Reconciling Amounts ( ) Consolidated Revenue $ , $ , Operating Income/(Loss) Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Information Worker , , Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) ( ) MSN ( ) ( ) Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) ( ) Home and Entertainment ( ) ( ) Reconciling Amounts ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated Operating Income/(Loss) $ , $ , Segment information presented accordance with SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information. This standard based management approach, which requires segmentation based upon our internal organization and reporting revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. Our financial reporting systems present various data for management run the business, including internal profit and loss statements ( & ) prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and / MSFT FORM - Part , Item impracticable for the Company separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. July , , revised our segments. These changes are designed promote better alignment strategies and objectives between development, sales, marketing, and services organizations; provide for more timely and rational allocation development, sales, and marketing resources within businesses; and focus long-term planning efforts key objectives and initiatives. Our seven new segments are: Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. Prior year segment information has been restated conform the seven new segments. not practical discern operating income for for the current segments operating income for for the previous segments due reorganizations. The segments are designed allocate resources internally and provide framework determine management responsibility. Due our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments, and therefore these segments are not designed measure operating income loss directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and incent shared efforts. Management will continually evaluate the alignment development, sales organizations, and inter-segment commissions for segment reporting purposes, which may result changes segment allocations future periods. The Client segment includes revenue and operating expenses associated with Windows , Windows , and other standard Windows operating systems. Server and Tools segment consists revenue and operating expenses associated with server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and other servers. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier product support services, and Microsoft consulting services. Information Worker segment includes Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Visio, other information worker products, SharePoint Portal Server CALs, allocation for CALs, and professional product support services. Microsoft Business Solutions includes Microsoft Great Plains, Navision, and bCentral. MSN includes MSN Subscription and MSN Network services. Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded device operating systems, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. Home and Entertainment includes the Xbox video game system, games, consumer software and hardware, and platform. Reconciling amounts include adjustments state revenue and operating income accordance with . GAAP and corporate level expenses not specifically attributed segment. For revenue, reconciling items include certain undelivered elements unearned revenue and allowances for certain sales returns and rebates. Reconciling items for operating income/(loss) include general and administrative expenses ($ billion and $ billion ), broad-based research and development expenses ($ million and $ million ), and certain corporate level sales and marketing costs ($ million and $ million ). The internal segment operating income loss also includes non-GAAP accelerated methods depreciation and amortization. Additionally, losses equity investees and minority interest are classified operating income for internal reporting presentations. Revenue attributable . operations includes shipments customers the United States, licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations, and exports finished goods, primarily Asia, Latin America, and Canada. Revenue from . operations totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Revenue from outside the United States, excluding licensing OEMs and certain multinational organizations and . exports, totaled $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . single customer accounted for % more revenue , , . Long-lived assets (principally property and equipment) totaled $ billion and $ billion the United States and and $ million, and $ million other countries and . / MSFT FORM - Part , Item QUARTERLY INFORMATION ( millions, except earnings per share) (Unaudited) Quarter Ended Sept. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , Basic earnings per share ( ) ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ) ( ) Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ) Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Earnings per share have been restated reflect two-for-one stock split February . ( ) Includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per basic share and diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . . ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. and $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) impairments certain investments. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item INDEPENDENT AUDITORS\x92 REPORT the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Corporation\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. described Note the financial statements, the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , effective July , , and Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , effective July , . / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Deloitte & Touche LLP Seattle, Washington July , (September , certain information Note ) / MSFT FORM - Part , Item , , Part III, Item , , , , ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting. PART III ITEM . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption \x93Election Directors and Management Information\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Such information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Controller and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website www microsoft com msft. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature such amendment waiver that website report Form - . ITEM . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation\x94 and \x93Information Regarding the Board and its Committees \x96 Director Compensation\x94 incorporated herein reference. ITEM . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 and \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 incorporated herein reference. ITEM . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the captions \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ITEM . Principal Accounting Fees and Services Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the proxy statement under the heading \x93Fees Paid Deloitte & Touche LLP\x94 and incorporated herein reference. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item PART ITEM . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Annual Report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - did not file any reports Form - during the quarter ended June , . furnished the SEC reports Form - April , and May , . The April , Form - was for the purpose furnishing the press release announcing our financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March , . The May , Form - was for the purpose furnishing our consolidated balance sheets June , and March , , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for the three and nine months ended March , and formatted XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language). ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan, amended and restated Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\x92 Consent Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act . Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . / MSFT FORM - SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . ICROSOFT ORPORATION : / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title / / ILLIAM . ATES III William . Gates III Chairman the Board Directors and Chief Software Architect / / TEVEN . ALLMER Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer / / AMES . ASH , ., . James . Cash, ., . Director / / AYMOND . ILMARTIN Raymond . Gilmartin Director / / AUGHLIN OROLOGOS Ann McLaughlin Korologos Director / / AVID . ARQUARDT David . Marquardt Director / / . . EED , . . . Reed, . Director / / . HIRLEY Jon . Shirley Director / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) / MSFT FORM -', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption \x93Election Directors and Management Information\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Such information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Controller and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website www microsoft com msft. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature such amendment waiver that website report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation\x94 and \x93Information Regarding the Board and its Committees \x96 Director Compensation\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 and \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the captions \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accounting Fees and Services Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the proxy statement under the heading \x93Fees Paid Deloitte & Touche LLP\x94 and incorporated herein reference. / MSFT FORM - Part , Item PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Annual Report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - did not file any reports Form - during the quarter ended June , . furnished the SEC reports Form - April , and May , . The April , Form - was for the purpose furnishing the press release announcing our financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March , . The May , Form - was for the purpose furnishing our consolidated balance sheets June , and March , , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for the three and nine months ended March , and formatted XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language). ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan, amended and restated Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\x92 Consent Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act . Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . / MSFT FORM - ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}