{'item 1. ': 'Business General Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple" the "Company") was incorporated under the laws the State California January , . The Company\' principal executive offices are located Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California, and its telephone number ( ) - . The Company designs, manufactures and markets microprocessor-based personal computers and related personal computing and communicating solutions for sale primarily education, home, business and government customers. Substantially all the Company\' net sales date have been derived from the sale personal computers from its Apple Macintosh(registered trademark) line computers and related software and peripherals. The Company operates one principal industry segment across geographically diverse marketplaces. During , the Company began implement certain restructuring actions aimed reducing its cost structure, improving its competitiveness, and restoring sustained profitibility. The Company\' restructuring actions have included the termination employees, well the sale the Company\' Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI"). part the terms this sale, the Company committed purchase product manufactured SCI the future. Further information regarding the above may found Part , Item this Annual Report Form - (the "Form - ") under the subheadings "Restructuring Operations" and "Inventory and Supply" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Restructuring Operations," under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product" included under the heading "Concentrations Risk," and under the subheading "Purchase Commitment" included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. Principal products Apple Macintosh personal computers were first introduced , and are characterized their intuitive ease use, innovative applications base, and built- networking, graphics and multimedia capabilities. The Company offers wide range personal computing products, including personal computers, related peripherals, software, and networking and connectivity products. All the Company\' Macintosh products include the PowerPC(trademark) RISC-based microprocessor. The Company also offers computer products capable running application software designed for the -DOS Windows operating systems ("Cross Platform Products"). These products include the RISC-based PowerPC microprocessor and either include the Pentium -class microprocessor can accommodate add- card containing Pentium -class microprocessor. These products enable users run concurrently applications that require the Mac , -DOS, Windows , Windows operating systems. Power Macintosh The Power Macintosh high-performance family personal computers targeted business, academic and professional users and designed meet the speed, expansion and networking needs the most demanding Macintosh user. These Power Macintosh products not only support virtually all existing Macintosh applications, but can also run -DOS and Windows applications when using SoftWindows(trademark) software from Insignia Solutions. Macintosh Performa The Performa family personal computers designed appeal primarily first-time personal computer users. These products feature all- -one box computing solutions, including software and hardware chosen specifically with home users mind. Macintosh PowerBook The PowerBook family portable computer products specifically designed for mobile computing needs. All PowerBook personal computers include software designed enhance mobile computing. Peripheral Products The Company sells associated computer peripherals, including the ImageWriter(registered trademark), StyleWriter(registered trademark), Color StyleWriter and LaserWriter(registered trademark) printer families, -ROM and magnetic disk drives, scanners, range color monitors, and the QuickTake(registered trademark) digital camera. MessagePad and Related Products The Apple MessagePad(registered trademark) communications assistant integrates Newton(registered trademark) technology hand-held mobile computer that intelligently assists the user capturing, organizing and communicating information. The Apple MessagePad includes additional built- applications and faster processor compared the Apple MessagePad . The Apple eMate integrates Newton technology mobile computer and includes built- applications. The product allows students perform preliminary work the eMate and enhance either existing Mac Windows software-based desktop computer. The eMate allows students enter data keyboard stylus and also share data and files with each other, send and receive -mail, and access the Internet. The Company plans begin selling the Apple MessagePad and the Apple eMate early calendar . Operating System Software and Application Software The Company\' operating system software, its proprietary Macintosh system software called Mac , provides Apple computers with easy, consistent user interface and built- networking capability based its AppleTalk networking standard, well other industry networking standards, and ensures integration hardware and software. The Company also develops and distributes extensions the Macintosh system software, such utilities, languages, developer tools, and educational software. Claris Corporation, wholly-owned subsidiary the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes application software variety established personal productivity categories, such database management and graphics, for Macintosh and Windows-based systems. Claris(registered trademark) products are distributed primarily through independent software resellers. Servers The Workgroup and Network Server families products provide file, print, Internet, and application services, varying size workgroups. These products also provide Apple system connectivity local area networks, and interoperability with other computers and computing environments. Internet Products Apple\' Internet strategy focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\' product line and developing and supporting "open" standards for the Internet. The Company has number Internet products currently available. The Apple Internet Connection Kit collection Apple and third-party software which enables the user connect directly the Internet. The Company has recently introduced Cyberdog(registered trademark), set tools which enables the user customize the way they access and view Internet content. The Apple Internet Server Solution consists workgroup server and both Apple and third-party software which enable the users establish presence the World Wide Web. Further information regarding the Company\' products may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Competition" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Markets and Distribution The Company\' customers are primarily the education, home, business and government markets. Certain customers are attracted the Macintosh for variety reasons, including the availability wide variety certain application software, the reduced amount training resulting from the Macintosh\' intuitive ease use, and the ability the Macintosh network and communicate with other computer systems and environments. Apple personal computers were first introduced education customers the late 1970s. the United States, the Company one the major suppliers personal computers for both elementary and secondary school customers, well for college and university customers. The Company also substantial supplier institutions higher education outside the United States. Presently, the Americas represent the Company\' largest geographic marketplace. The Apple Americas organization focuses the Company\' sales, marketing, and support efforts North and South America. Products sold these regions are primarily manufactured the Company\' facilities California and Singapore, and the SCI facility Colorado, and are distributed from the Company\' facility California and from third-party facility Illinois. Approximately % % the Company\' revenues recent years has come from its international operations. The Company\' international sales and marketing divisions consist : Apple Americas; Apple Europe, Middle East and Africa ("Apple EMEA"); Apple Japan; and Apple Asia Pacific (which does not include Japan). The marketing divisions focus opportunities their regions. Products sold Apple EMEA are manufactured primarily the Company\' facility Cork, Ireland. Products sold Apple Americas, Apple Japan, and Apple Asia Pacific are manufactured primarily the Company\' facilities California and Singapore, and the SCI facility Colorado. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers, and also continuing its expansion into various consumer channels, such mass merchandise stores, consumer electronics outlets and computer superstores, response changing industry practices and customer preferences. The Company\' products are sold primarily business and government customers through independent resellers, value- added resellers and systems integrators; home customers through independent resellers and consumer channels; and education customers through direct sales and independent resellers. order provide products and service its independent resellers timely basis, the Company distributes its products through number Apple and third- party distribution and support centers. summary the Company\' Industry Segment and Geographic Information may found Part , Item this Form - under Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Industry Segment and Geographic Information," which information hereby incorporated reference. Raw materials Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, key components and processes currently obtained from single sources include certain the Company\' displays, microprocessors, mouse devices, keyboards, disk drives, printers and printer components, application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") and other custom chips, and certain processes relating construction the plastic housing for the Company\' computers. Any availability limitations, interruption supplies, price increases relative these and other components could adversely affect the Company\' business and financial results. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source, until the Company has evaluated whether there need for additional supplier. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, there may initial capacity constraints until such time the suppliers\' yields have matured. Components are normally acquired through purchase orders, common the industry, typically covering the Company\' requirements for periods from days. However, the Company continues evaluate the need for supply contract each situation. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed, the Company\' ability ship the related product utilizing that component desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. The Company believes that the suppliers whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\' business and financial position include, this time: Canon, Inc., General Electric ., IBM, Motorola, Inc., Sharp Corporation, Sony Corporation, Texas Instruments, Inc., and their United States affiliates VLSI Technology, Inc., Quanta Computer, Inc., Quantum Corporation, and SCI. However, the Company helps mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and manufacturing schedules and levels. The Company believes that most its single-source suppliers, including most the foregoing companies, are reliable multinational corporations. Most these suppliers manufacture the relevant components multiple plants. The Company further believes that its long-standing business relationships with these and other key suppliers are strong and mutually beneficial nature. The Company has also from time time experienced significant price increases and limited availability certain components that are available from multiple sources. Any similar occurrences the future could have adverse affect the Company\' operating results. The Company obligated purchase certain percentages its total annual volumes CPUs and logic boards from SCI over each the next three years (see Exhibit hereto). addition, the Company has supply agreement with Motorola, Inc. (see Exhibit hereto). The agreement with Motorola continues for five years from January , unless otherwise mutually agreed writing the parties. The Company single-sources certain microprocessors from Motorola. The supply agreement does not obligate the Company make minimum purchase commitments; however, the agreement does commit the vendor supply the Company\' requirements the particular items for the duration the agreement. Further discussion relating availability and supply components and product may found under Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Inventory and Supply" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product" included under the heading "Concentrations Risk," and under the subheading "Purchase Commitment" included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. Patents, trademarks, copyrights and licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer and peripheral systems. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks the United States and number foreign countries for "Apple", the Apple silhouette logo, the Apple color logo, "Macintosh", Newton, the Newton Lightbulb logo, Claris and numerous other product trademarks. , the Company acquired ownership the trademark "Macintosh" for use connection with computer products. Although the Company believes that the ownership such patents, copyrights, and trademarks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible that certain components the Company\' products may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company believes the resolution any claim infringements would not have material adverse effect its financial condition and results operations reported the accompanying financial statements. However, depending the amount and timing unfavorable resolution any such claims infringement, possible that the Company\' future results operations cash flow could materially affected particular period. The Company has from time time entered into cross-licensing agreements with other companies. Seasonal business Although the Company does not consider its business highly seasonal, has historically experienced increased sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters, compared other quarters its fiscal year, due holiday demand for and calendar year-end buying some its products. However, past performance should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future revenue financial performance. Warranty The Company offers parts and labor limited warranty its products. The warranty period one year from the date purchase the end user. The Company also offers -day warranty for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage all Apple hardware products. Significant Customers customer accounted for more than % the Company\' net sales , , and . Backlog general, the Company\' resellers purchase products -needed basis. Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates depending changing market conditions. Unfilled orders (backlog) can , and often are, canceled will. The Company attempts fill orders the requested delivery schedules. However, products may relatively short supply from time time until production volumes have reached level sufficient meet demand other production fulfillment constraints exist. The Company\' backlog unfilled orders decreased approximately $ million November , from $ million December , . The Company\' backlog November , consisted primarily the Company\' PowerBook products, well higher-end Power Macintosh products. The Company expects that substantially all its orders backlog November , will either shipped canceled during fiscal . the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following introduction new products because overordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, well other factors affecting the Company\' backlog, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future revenue financial performance. Further information regarding the Company\' backlog may found under Part , Item this Annual Report Form - under the subheading "Net Sales" included under the heading "Results Operations," and under the subheading "Product Introductions and Transitions" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Competition The market for the design, manufacture and sale personal computers, MessagePad and related products, and related software and peripheral products highly competitive. continues characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software development that have substantially increased the capabilities and applications these products, and has resulted the frequent introduction new products. The principal competitive factors this market are relative price performance, product quality and reliability, availability software, product features, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, availability hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. Further discussion relating the competitive conditions the personal computing industry and the Company\' competitive position the market place may found under Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Competition," included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Reserves Against Inventories" under the heading "Accounting Estimates," which information hereby incorporated reference. Research and development Because the personal computer industry characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\' ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow competitive products the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas hardware and peripherals, system software, networking and communications, and the Internet. The Company\' research and development expenditures totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. Further information regarding the Company\' & expenditures for fiscal year set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Operating Expenses," which information hereby incorporated reference. Environmental laws Compliance with United States federal, state, and local laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect upon the Company\' capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, assurance can given that such laws, any future laws enacted for the protection the environment, will not have material adverse effect the Company. Employees September , , Apple and its subsidiaries worldwide had , regular employees, and additional , temporary part-time contractors and employees. Foreign and domestic operations and geographic data Information regarding financial data geographic area and the risks associated with international operations set forth under Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Industry Segment and Geographic Information," and under Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks," included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and domestic sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and anti-dumping penalties. Item . Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe and the Pacific. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms five additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, service and support center. addition, the Company owns the research and development facility located Cupertino, California, which approximates , square feet. Outside the United States, the Company owns facility Apeldoorn, Netherlands, which used primarily for distribution, totaling approximately , square feet, and certain other international facilities, totaling approximately , square feet. Certain facilities Sacramento, California; Apeldoorn, Netherlands and the United Kingdom are currently being held for sale part the Company\' restructuring plan, which includes increasing the proportion the Company\' products manufactured and distributed under outsourcing arrangements. Further information regarding the Company\' restructuring plan, may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheadings "Restructuring Operations" and "Inventory and Supply" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Restructuring Operations," under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product" included under the heading "Concentrations Risk," and under the subheading "Purchase Commitment" included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. The Company believes that its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested additional internal capacity and external partnerships, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future even after the sale the foregoing facilities. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Other Factors" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Legal Proceedings Information regarding legal proceedings set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Litigation," included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . Executive Officers the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding the executive officers the Company December , : Gilbert . Amelio*, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (age ). . Amelio joined the Company\' Board Directors November and was elected Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer February . From February , . Amelio was President and Chief Executive Officer National Semicondutor Corporation, manufacturer semiconductors. Previously, served president Rockwell Communications Systems, subsidiary Rockwell International. currently director Pacific Telesis Group, communications and information services company. Fred . Anderson*, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ). . Anderson joined the Company April Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ("ADP"), computing services company, from August March . Prior joining ADP, . Anderson held several domestic and international executive positions MAI Basic Four, Inc., including President and Chief Operating Officer. Ellen . Hancock, Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer (age ). . Hancock joined the Company July Executive Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer. From September May , she was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer National Semiconductor Corporation, manufacturer semiconductors. Prior her employment with National Semiconductor, she was Senior Vice President and Group Executive the Networking Hardware, Networking Software, and Software Solutions divisions International Business Machines ("IBM") from - . Marco Landi*, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (age ). . Landi joined the Company March , Senior Vice President and President Apple Europe assume responsibility for all Apple\' business operations throughout Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and June was promoted Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Prior joining the Company, . Landi was employed Texas Instruments (" ") Europe President Europe, Middle East, and Africa, responsible for all \' business operations those regions. Prior that assignment, . Landi served for two years President Asia. George . Scalise*, Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer (age ). . Scalise joined the Company March Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. Prior joining the Company, . Scalise was Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer National Semiconductor Corporation. Robert . Calderoni, Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations Controller (age ). . Calderoni joined the Company July his present position. Previously, from February July , was Vice President, Finance, for Storage Systems IBM, and from February was Director Finance IBM. Prior held various finance positions IBM. Satjiv Chahil, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Corporate Marketing (age ). . Chahil joined the Company Director Marketing for Apple Pacific . subsequently served Vice President , New Media and Vice President, Entertainment Industry. January . Chahil was named Senior Vice President, Corporate Marketing. Therese Kreig Crane, Senior Vice President, Strategic Market Segments (age ). . Crane joined the Company business development manager. She served variety marketing positions until , when she was named Vice President - Education Sales for the Apple USA division. she was promoted Senior Vice President, Education Market Division for Apple Americas. . Crane was named Senior Vice President, Strategic Market Segments June . Guerrino Luca, Senior Vice President, Apple Computer, Inc. and President, Claris Corporation (age ). . DeLuca, who joined the Company , was promoted Vice President, Marketing, for Apple Europe . served Vice President and General Manager the Personal Interactive Electronics Group for Apple Europe , and Vice President Marketing and Sales for the Company\' software division . was named President Claris Corporation, subsidiary the Company that develops, manufactures and markets software applications. . Luca was made Senior Vice President the Company . Michael . Dionne, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Apple Assist (age ). . Dionne, who joined the Company , was promoted Senior Vice President . Sales July . was named Vice President Marketing Operations for the Apple USA division May and June , was named Vice President Worldwide Communications and Marketing Services. . Dionne was promoted Senior Vice President, Business Markets Division, Apple Americas January , and was named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Apple Assist July . John Floisand*, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales (age ). . Floisand joined the Company May , Director Sales, Apple Computer, Ltd., United Kingdom. October , . Floisand was named Director Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division, and February was promoted Vice President, Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division. . Floisand was named Vice President and President, Apple Pacific August . October , . Floisand was promoted Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific, and June was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales. . Frederick Forsyth, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Power Macintosh Products Group (age ). . Forsyth joined the Company June , Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing, Apple Products Division. . Forsyth was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing November , and April was promoted Senior Vice President and General Manager, Macintosh Systems Division. From June June , . Forsyth served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. assumed his present position June . James . Groff, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Information Appliance Products Division (age ). . Groff joined the Company when Apple acquired Network Innovations Corporation, networking software company -founded . After the acquisition, . Groff remained President that company. From was Vice President and General Manager the Apple Business Systems division. was named Vice President Worldwide Education for the Worldwide Marketing and Customer Solutions division. After leaving the Company for brief period , returned June Senior Vice President and General Manager, Information Appliance Products Division. Howard . Lee, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Servers and Alternate Platform Products Division (age ). . Lee joined the Company September , Vice President, Macintosh Systems, and was named his present position June . From , . Lee served Vice President Engineering, SPARC Technology, Sun Microsystems, Inc., developer, manufacturer and marketer computer workstations. Jane . Risser, Vice President and Treasurer (age ). . Risser, who joined the Company , was named her present position May . From May , she held the position Director Corporate Finance. She was previously the Director Investor Relations. Douglas . Solomon, Vice President, Strategic Planning and Vice President, Corporate Development (age ). . Solomon, who joined the Company , was named Director, Corporate Development, May . December , was promoted Vice President, Corporate Development, and July the additional position Vice President, Strategic Planning. Patricia Sharp, Senior Vice President, Human Resources (age ). . Sharp was promoted her present position December . From July December , she served Vice President, Human Resources, for the Advanced Technology Group and from April July , she was Senior Director, Human Resources, research and development. Prior that assignment, she held various managerial positions within the Human Resources organization. *Information regarding employment agreements between certain executive officers and the Company set forth the section entitled "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Change Control Arrangements" and "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers" the Company\' Proxy Statement, which information hereby incorporated reference. PART Item . Market for the Registrant\' Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. Options are traded the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the American Stock Exchange. Information regarding the Company\' high and low reported closing prices for its common stock and the number shareholders record set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere this Form - . (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) ANNUAL Five fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $( ) $ $ $ $ Earnings (loss)per common and common equivalent share $( ) $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings(loss)per share ( thousands) , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ $ , $ $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt $ $ $ $ $ Deferred tax liabilities $ $ $ $ $ Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. All information based the Company\' fiscal calendar. (Tabular information: Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Results Operations Change Change Net sales $ , ( %) $ , % $ , Gross margin $ ( %) $ , % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Research and development $ ( %) $ % $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , ( %) $ , % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Percentage net sales % ( %) ( %) Interest and other income(expense), net $ $ ( ) % $ ( ) Net income (loss) $ ( )( %) $ % $ Earnings (loss) per share $( )( %) $ % $ : Not Meaningful Overview During the last nine months , the Company experienced significant decline net sales, units shipped, and share the personal computer market. This decline demand and the resulting losses, coupled with intense price competition throughout the industry, led the Company\' decision implement new strategic direction intended improve the Company\' competitiveness and restore its profitability. The Company has initiated programs develop and market products and services more selectively targeted education, home, and business segments. moving this new strategic direction, the Company expects reduce the number new product introductions and the number products certain categories within its current product portfolio. Net Sales Net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing $ , million, %; $ , million, %; and $ million, %; during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods , due decrease net sales Macintosh(registered trademark) computers and peripheral products such displays and printers. Total Macintosh computer unit sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods . This decline unit sales was result decline lack growth worldwide demand for all product families, which the Company believes was due principally customer concerns regarding the Company\' strategic direction, financial condition, and future prospects, and due delays the shipment certain PowerBook(registered trademark) products result quality problems. addition, unit sales peripheral products trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % during the twelve, nine and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods , for the reasons noted above. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased slightly during the twelve and three months ended September , , and decreased slightly during the nine months ended September , , compared with the same periods , primarily due continued shift product mix toward the Company\' newer products and products with multimedia configurations, offset varying degrees pricing actions across all product lines order stimulate demand. The average aggregate revenue per peripheral product was flat during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods . The average revenue per Macintosh and per peripheral unit will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including industrywide pricing pressures and increased competition. International net sales represented % net sales compared with % net sales . International net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, % and % during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods . Net sales European markets trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods , result decrease Macintosh and peripheral unit sales, partially offset increase the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh and per peripheral unit, primarily during the first part the year. Net sales Japan trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods . increase Macintosh unit sales during these periods was more than offset decrease the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh and per peripheral unit and decrease peripheral unit sales. Domestic net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % for the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the corresponding periods , resulting from decline lack growth demand for all product families. According industry source, the fourth quarter compared with the fourth quarter , the Company\' share the worldwide and . personal computer markets declined % from %, and % from %, respectively. Net sales increased $ , million, %, over , primarily due combination unit growth, higher average selling prices, and changes currency exchange rates. Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased approximately % over the prior year. This unit sales growth resulted principally from strong sales the Company\' Power Macintosh(registered trademark) products, which accounted for more than % total unit shipments during the fourth quarter , compared with % the comparable period , and from sales newer product offerings within the Performa(registered trademark) family desktop personal computers. This unit growth was partially offset declining unit sales certain the Company\' older product offerings. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased % compared with , primarily due shift product mix toward the Company\' newer products and products with multimedia configurations. International net sales represented % net sales compared with % net sales . International net sales grew % from , primarily reflecting strong net sales growth the Pacific region, particularly Japan. Domestic net sales increased % over . general, the Company\' resellers purchase products -needed basis. Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates depending changing market conditions. Unfilled orders (\'backlog\') can , and often are, canceled will. The Company attempts fill orders the requested delivery schedules. However, products may relatively short supply from time time until production volumes have reached level sufficient meet demand other production fulfillment constraints exist. The Company\' backlog was approximately $ million November , , and consisted primarily the Company\' PowerBook products, well higher-end Power Macintosh products. the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following introduction new products because overordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, well other factors affecting the Company\' backlog, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future revenue financial performance. The Company believes that net sales will remain below the level the prior year\' comparable periods through least the first quarter , not later. addition, there can assurance that the Company will able achieve sales levels the first quarter comparable the levels achieved the fourth quarter . Gross Margin Gross margin represents the difference between the Company\' net sales and its cost goods sold. The amount revenue generated the sale products influenced principally the price set the Company for its products relative competitive products. The cost goods sold based primarily the cost components and, lesser extent, direct labor costs. The type and cost components included particular configurations the Company\' products (such memory and disk drives) are often directly related the need market products configurations competitive with those other manufacturers. Competition the personal computer industry intense, and the short term, frequent changes pricing and product configuration are often necessary order remain competitive. Accordingly, gross margin percentage net sales can significantly influenced the short term actions undertaken the Company response industrywide competitive pressures. Gross margin decreased % compared with % . This decrease primarily the result $ million charge the second quarter for the write-down certain inventory, well the costs cancel excess component orders, necessitated significantly lower than expected demand for many the Company\' products, primarily its entry-level products. Also, the Company separately incurred approximately $ million charges during the last nine months provide for the estimated costs correct certain quality problems certain entry-level, Performa, PowerBook and peripheral products, covering both goods held inventory and shipped goods. The Company also incurred greater warranty expenses per unit sold during compared with . addition, this decrease gross margins due the Company\' response extreme competitive actions other companies attempting gain market share, including the Company\' pricing actions the United States, Japan and Europe across most product lines, which were partially offset decrease the cost certain product components. the first quarter , the Company took, and the Company expects that will continue take, similar pricing actions with respect number product lines. The decrease gross margin levels was slightly offset hedging gains, net the effects stronger . dollar relative certain foreign currencies. The Company\' operating and pricing strategies take into account changes exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. Gross margin increased both amount and percentage net sales compared with . The increase gross margin percentage net sales was primarily result shift product mix toward the Company\' newer, high-margin products, which included strong sales certain products within the Company\' Power Macintosh family personal computers and its Macintosh Performa family. The increase gross margin levels was affected favorably changes foreign currency exchange rates result weaker . dollar relative certain foreign currencies compared with . Although gross margin for was %, improved % during the fourth quarter, primarily result lower component costs, sales fully reserved product, and shift product mix toward the Company\' newer products and products with multimedia configurations, which tend have higher margins. There can assurance that the Company will able sustain the gross margin level achieved the fourth quarter. Gross margins will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industrywide pricing pressures, increased competition, and compressed product life cycles. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage quality problems and warranty costs, and stimulate demand for certain its products. Research and Development Change Change Research and development $ ( %) $ % $ Percentage net sales % % % Research and development expenditures decreased slightly when compared with , primarily due the termination certain third-party joint development efforts. The increase percentage net sales resulted from decrease the level net sales. The increase research and development expenditures during compared with reflected higher project- and headcount-related spending. The decrease percentage net sales was the result revenue growth over . The Company believes that continued investments research and development are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related continued, timely development new and enhanced products. The Company believes that research and development expenditures will comparable those . Selling, General and Administrative Change Change Selling, general and administrative $ , ( %) $ , % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative expenses remained relatively flat, but increased percentage net sales, compared with . The increase percentage net sales when compared with was the result reduced net sales. , selling, general and administrative expenses increased result increased advertising and channel marketing programs. The decrease percentage net sales was primarily the result the sales growth over . result its restructuring plan, the Company expects that selling, general and administrative expenditures will decrease compared with levels. Restructuring Costs For information regarding the Company\' restructuring actions, refer page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income(Expense), Net Change Change Interest and other income(expense), net $ $( ) % $( ) Interest and other income (expense), net, increased $ million income from $ million expense . This $ million favorable change primarily composed favorable variance $ million related net realized and unrealized foreign exchange hedging gains, and lower foreign exchange hedging costs, primarily result lower market and option volatility, higher . interest rates compared with rates abroad, and reduced foreign currency cash flows; increase $ million related realized gains the sale most the Company\' available-for-sale and other equity securities during ; offset $ million unfavorable variance related interest income (expense), result higher average debt balances and lower average cash balances during the year, and overall decline average interest rate yields. addition, the Company\' cost funds has increased result the downgrading from January through May its short-term debt and Moody\' Investor Services and Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency, respectively, and its long-term debt and + Moody\' Investor Services and Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency, respectively. , interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $ million expense from $ million expense . This $ million favorable change was primarily composed $ million interest income (expense) attributable higher average cash balances, higher interest rates, and interest rate hedging gains, offset part $ million unfavorable variance related realized and unrealized foreign exchange hedging losses and foreign exchange hedging costs. Market volatility and higher foreign currency balances accounted for the increased hedging costs. For summary the Company\' interest and other income (expense), net, refer page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information regarding the Company\' strategy and accounting for financial instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information regarding the Company\' notes payable banks and long-term debt, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Change Change Provision (benefit) for income taxes $( ) $ % $ Effective tax rate % % % September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. substantial portion this asset realizable based the ability offset existing deferred tax liabilities. Realization approximately $ million the asset dependent the Company\' ability generate approximately $ million future . taxable income. Management believes that more likely than not that the asset will realized based forecasted . income. However, there can assurance that the Company will meet its expectations future . income. result, the amount the deferred tax assets considered realizable could reduced the near and long term estimates future taxable . income are reduced. Such occurrence could materially adversely affect the Company\' financial results and condition. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for valuation allowance. For additional information regarding income taxes, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet dynamic customer demand patterns. Inherent this process are number factors that the Company must successfully manage order achieve favorable future operating results and financial condition. Potential risks and uncertainties that could affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition include, without limitation, continued competitive pressures the marketplace and the effect any reaction the Company such competitive pressures, including pricing actions the Company; the ability the Company make timely delivery the marketplace successful technological innovations; the effects significant adverse publicity; the Company\' ability supply products certain categories; and uncertainties concerning the Company\' ability successfully implement its new strategic direction and restructuring actions. The Company expects that will not return sustained profitability until least the second quarter , not later. Restructuring Operations During , the Company began implement certain restructuring actions aimed reducing its cost structure, improving its competitiveness, and restoring sustained profitability. There are several risks inherent the Company\' efforts transition new cost structure. These include the risk that the Company will not able reduce expenditures quickly enough restore sustained profitability and the risk that cost-cutting initiatives will impair the Company\' ability innovate and remain competitive the computer industry. part its restructuring effort, the Company has begun implement new business model. Implementation the new business model involves several risks, including the risk that simplifying its product line the Company will increase its dependence fewer products, potentially reduce overall sales, and increase its reliance unproven products and technology. Another risk the new business model that increasing the proportion the Company\' products manufactured under outsourcing arrangements, the Company could lose control the quality quantity the products manufactured, lose the flexibility make timely changes production schedules order respond changing market conditions. addition, the new business model could adversely affect employee morale, thereby damaging the Company\' ability retain and motivate employees. Also, because the new business model contemplates that the Company will rely greater extent collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, the Company will have less direct control over certain its research and development efforts, and its ability create innovative new products may reduced. Finally, even the new business model successfully implemented, there can assurance that will effectively resolve the various issues currently facing the Company. addition, although the Company believes that the actions taking under its restructuring plan should help restore marketplace confidence the Macintosh platform, there can assurance that such actions will successful. For the foregoing reasons there can assurance that the current restructuring actions will achieve their goals that similar actions will not required the future. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected should encounter difficulty effectively managing the transition the new business model and cost structure. For more information regarding the Company\' restructuring actions initiated the second quarter , refer page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Product Introductions and Transitions Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company frequently introduces new products and product enhancements. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. addition, although the number new product introductions may decrease under the Company\' new business model, the risks and uncertainties associated with new product introductions may increase the Company refocuses its product offerings key growth segments. The rate product shipments immediately following introduction new product not necessarily indication the future rate shipments for that product, which depends many factors, some which are not under the control the Company. These factors may include initial large purchases small segment the user population that tends purchase new technology prior its acceptance the majority users ("early adopters"); purchases satisfaction pent- demand users who anticipated new technology and, result, deferred purchases other products; and overordering dealers who anticipate shortages due the aforementioned factors. These factors may offset others, such the deferral purchases many users until new technology accepted "proven" and for which commonly used software products are available; and the reduction orders dealers once they believe they can obtain sufficient supply products previously backlog. Backlog often volatile after new product introductions due the aforementioned demand factors, often increasing coincident with introduction, and then decreasing once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply the new products. The measurement demand for newly introduced products further complicated the availability different product configurations, which may include various types built- peripherals and software. Configurations may also require certain localization (such language) for various markets and, result, demand different geographic areas may function the availability third-party software those localized versions. For example, the availability European-language versions software products manufactured . producers may lag behind the availability . versions quarter more. This may result lower initial demand for the Company\' new products outside the United States, even though localized versions the Company\' products may available. The increasing integration functions and complexity operations the Company\' products also increase the risk that latent defects other faults could discovered customers end-users after volumes products have been produced shipped. such defects were significant, the Company could incur material recall and replacement costs under product warranties. Competition The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. During , the Company\' results operations and financial condition were, and the future may continue , adversely affected industrywide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality and hardware performance and features based existing emerging industry standards. Many the Company\' competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources; broader product lines; and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected overall demand for personal computers and general customer preferences for one platform over another one set product features over another. The Company currently the primary maker hardware that uses the Macintosh operating system ("Mac(registered trademark) "). The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers that run the -DOS and Microsoft Windows operating systems. The Company believes that the Mac , with its perceived advantages over -DOS and Windows, has been driving force behind sales the Company\' personal computer hardware for the past several years. Recent innovations the Windows platform, including those introduced Windows , have added features the Windows platform similar those offered the Mac . The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result the recent innovations the Windows platform. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected its ability maintain and increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform. The Company recently announced new strategy with respect updating its operating system while redesigning its plan for next- generation operating system. extend the life its current operating system, the Company intends issue periodic releases consisting discrete operating system components. The Company expects that this will enable introduce some new functionality for the current operating system sooner than would able introduce completely new operating system. Concurrently, the Company will continue development its next-generation operating system, focusing increased functionality the possible expense some backward compatibility. Diminished backward compatibility its new operating system could result loss existing customers. Inability introduce next- generation operating system timely basis, gain developer support and market accepatance for , may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. part its efforts increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform, the Company announced the licensing the Mac other personal computer vendors January , well additional licensing initiative . Several vendors currently sell products that utilize the Macintosh operating system. The Company believes that licensing the operating system will result broader installed base which software vendors can develop and provide technical innovations for the Macintosh platform. However, there can assurance that the installed base will broadened the licensing the operating system that licensing will result increase the number application software titles the rate which vendors will bring market application software based the Mac . addition, result licensing its operating system, the Company forced compete with other companies producing Mac -based computer systems. The benefits the Company from licensing the Mac third parties may more than offset the disadvantages being required compete with them. supplemental means addressing the competition from -DOS and Windows, the Company has devoted substantial resources toward developing personal computer products capable running application software designed for the -DOS Windows operating systems ("Cross-Platform Products"). These products include the RISC-based PowerPC(trademark) microprocessor and either include the Pentium -class microprocessor can accommodate add- card containing Pentium -class microprocessor. These products enable users run concurrently applications that require the Mac , -DOS, Windows , Windows operating systems. Depending customer demand, the Company may supply customers who purchase Cross-Platform Products with Windows operating system software under licensing agreements with Microsoft. However, order , the Company will need enter into one more agreements with certain Microsoft distributors. The Company, International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") and Motorola, Inc. have agreed upon and announced the availability specifications for PowerPC microprocessor-based hardware reference platform. These specifications define "unified" personal computer architecture that gives access both the Power Macintosh platform and the environment. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected its ability continue implement this agreement and manage the risk associated with the transition this new hardware reference platform. Decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed -DOS Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company believes that the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger -DOS and Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' recent financial losses and declining demand for the Company\' product have caused software developers question the Company\' position the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger -DOS and Windows market. Microsoft Corporation important developer application software for the Company\' products. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Company\' products may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating systems. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability IBM and Motorola, Inc., the suppliers the PowerPC RISC microprocessor for certain the Company\' products, supply the Company adequate numbers microprocessors that produce superior price performance results compared with those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, the developer and producer the microprocessors used most personal computers using the - DOS and Windows operating systems. IBM produces personal computers based Intel microprocessors well workstations based the PowerPC microprocessor, and also the developer , competing operating system the Company\' Mac . Accordingly, IBM\' interest supplying the Company with microprocessors for the Company\' products may influenced IBM\' perception its interests competing manufacturer personal computers and competing operating system vendor. Several competitors the Company, including Compaq, IBM, and Microsoft, have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including education and publishing. Many these companies have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources than the Company. The Company integrating Internet capabilities into its new and existing hardware and software platforms. There can assurance that the Company will able continue successfully. addition, the Internet market rapidly evolving and characterized increasing number market entrants who have introduced developed products addressing access , authoring for, communication over, the Internet. Many these competitors have significant lead over the Company developing products for the Internet, have significantly greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources than the Company, both. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability successfully expand and capitalize its investments other markets, such the markets for MessagePad (registered trademark) and related products. Global Market Risks large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operations and financial results could significantly affected international factors, such changes foreign currency exchange rates weak economic conditions the foreign markets which the Company distributes its products. When the . dollar strengthens against other currencies, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales decreases. When the . dollar weakens, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales increases. Correspondingly, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based costs increases when the . dollar weakens and decreases when the . dollar strengthens. Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' consolidated sales and gross margins ( expressed . dollars). mitigate the short-term impact fluctuating currency exchange rates the Company\' non- . dollar-based sales, product procurement, and operating expenses, the Company regularly hedges its non- . dollar- based exposures. Specifically, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts hedge firmly committed transactions. Currently, hedges firmly committed transactions not extend beyond one year. The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge certain other probable but not firmly committed transactions. Hedges probable but not firmly committed transactions currently not extend beyond one year. reduce the costs associated with these ongoing foreign exchange hedging programs, the Company also regularly sells foreign exchange option contracts and enters into certain other foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange forward and option contracts not accounted for hedges, including all transactions intended reduce the costs associated with the Company\' foreign exchange hedging programs, are carried fair value and are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. While the Company exposed with respect fluctuations the interest rates many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well interest paid its notes payable banks and long-term debt. mitigate the impact fluctuations . interest rates, the Company has entered into interest rate swap, collar, and floor transactions. Certain these transactions are intended better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt. The Company also enters into these transactions order diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. These instruments may extend the Company\' cash investment horizon maximum duration three years. ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap, option and floor positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency- and interest rate-related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities, there can assurance that the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company generally does not engage leveraged hedging. The Company\' current financial condition may have impact the costs its hedging transactions, well the willingness its financial counter-parties enter into hedging transactions with the Company. Inventory and Supply line with the Company\' efforts redesign its business model, the Company taking steps streamline its product portfolios its key usage areas education, business, and the home. This planned simplification product lines has resulted inventory reserves. Cancelation fees related custom component inventory purchased for anticipated product introductions that have been canceled have also been paid accrued. The Company has also separately provided for the estimated cost correct certain quality problems certain entry-level, Performa, PowerBook, and peripheral products. Although the Company believes its inventory and related reserves are adequate, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory well advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk that the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce excess insufficient inventories particular products. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Certain the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers, either pursuant design specifications the Company otherwise. result the Company\' restructuring actions, which include the sale the Company\' Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI") and related manufacturing outsourcing agreement with SCI, the proportion the Company\' products produced and distributed under outsourcing arrangements will increase. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they will also reduce the direct control the Company has over production. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Furthermore, any efforts the Company manage its inventory under outsourcing arrangements could subject the Company liquidated damages cancelation the arrangement. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company remains least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service. Accordingly, the event product defects warranty liability, the Company may remain primarily liable. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. The Company\' ability satisfy demand for its products may limited the availability key components. The Company has experienced some limitations supply certain microprocessors the first quarter . The Company believes that the availability from suppliers the personal computer industry microprocessors and ASICs presents the most significant potential for constraining the Company\' ability produce products. Specific microprocessors manufactured IBM and Motorola, Inc. are currently available only from single sources, while some advanced microprocessors are currently the early stages ramp- for production and thus have limited availability. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for other semiconductor products with other industries that have experienced increased demand for such products, due either increased consumer demand increased use semiconductors their products (such the cellular phone and automotive industries). Finally, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry (including certain microprocessors and ASICs). Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Such product supply constraints and corresponding increased costs could decrease the Company\' net sales and adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial condition. Marketing and Distribution number uncertainties may affect the marketing and distribution the Company\' products. Currently, the Company\' primary means distribution through third-party computer resellers. Such resellers include consumer channels such mass-merchandise stores, consumer electronics outlets, and computer superstores. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakened resellers within consumer channels were decide not continue distribute the Company\' products. Uncertainty over demand for the Company\' products may cause resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. Under the Company\' arrangements with its resellers, resellers have the option reduce eliminate unfilled orders previously placed, most instances without financial penalty. Resellers also have the option return products the Company without penalty within certain limits, beyond which they may assessed fees. The Company has recently experienced reduction ordering from historical levels resellers due uncertainty concerning the Company\' condition and prospects. Other Factors The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including certain major vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations which include, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and leave responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. unclear what effect such regulation will have the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. The Company currently the process replacing its existing transaction systems (which include order management, product procurement, distribution, and finance) with single integrated system part its ongoing effort increase operational efficiency. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected the Company unable implement and effectively manage the transition this new integrated system. part the Company\' restructuring plan, the Company sold its Napa, California, data center MCI Systemhouse ("MCI"), and entered into data processing outsourcing agreement with MCI. While this outsourcing agreement may lower the Company\' fixed costs operations, will also reduce the direct control the Company has over its data processing. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the Company\' data processing. Because the foregoing factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. addition, the Company\' participation highly dynamic industry often results significant volatility the Company\' common stock price. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company\' financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, net notes payable banks, increased $ , million September , , from $ million September , . The Company\' financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased $ , million September , , from $ million September , . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balance September , , includes $ million pledged collateral support letters credit primarily associated with the Company\' purchase commitments under the terms the sale the Company\' Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI. The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balance September , , includes $ million pledged collateral support notes payable banks. Cash generated operations during totaled $ million. Cash generated operations was primarily the result decreases inventories and accounts receivable, partially offset decreases accounts payable and deferred tax liabilities. part the Company\' restructuring plan and order meet certain liquidity requirements during , the Company generated $ million cash from the sale certain equity investments, and the sale the Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI and the Napa, California, data center MCI. The Company expects that cash generated from the sale equity investments and property, plant and equipment will significantly less compared with . Net cash used for the purchase property, plant, and equipment totaled $ million , and consisted primarily increases manufacturing machinery and equipment. The Company expects that the level capital expenditures will comparable . Notes payable banks September , , were approximately $ million lower than September , . During , outstanding loan Apple Computer ., subsidiary the Company, was repaid full. September , , Apple Japan, Inc., subsidiary the Company, held $ million notes payable several banks, with maturity dates ranging from the end December May . The majority these loans are guaranteed the Company. The Company\' balance long-term debt increased during due the issuance $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes certain qualified parties private placement. These notes were sold % par. These notes pay interest semi-annually and mature June , . The remainder long-term borrowings consists $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes issued under omnibus shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission . The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . For more information regarding the Company\' long-term debt, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. The Internal Revenue Service has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies for the years through , and most the issues dispute for these years have been resolved. June , , the IRS issued notice deficiency proposing increases the amount the Company\' federal income taxes for the years through . The Company has filed petition with the United States Tax Court contest these alleged tax deficiencies. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from these tax examinations. The Company\' cost funds has increased result the downgrading from January through May its short-term debt and Moody\' Investor Services and Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency, respectively, and its long-term debt and + Moody\' Investor Services and Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency, respectively. addition, the Company may required pledge additional collateral with respect certain its borrowings and letters credit and agree more stringent covenants than the past. The Company believes that its balances cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with continued short-term borrowings from banks, will sufficient meet its operating and other cash requirements, including the impact planned restructuring actions, short- and long-term basis. assurance can given that short-term borrowings from banks can continued, that any additional required financing could obtained should the restructuring plan take longer implement than anticipated unsuccessful. the Company unable obtain such financing, its liquidity, results operations, and financial condition could materially adversely affected. Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets September , , and September , Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Financial Statement Schedule: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule - Valuation and qualifying accounts - All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Shareholders and Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , . Our audits also include the financial statement schedule listed the Index the Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, present fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars millions) September , , and September , Assets: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ Short-term investments Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ ($ ) , , Inventories: Purchased parts Work process Finished goods , Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment: Land and buildings Machinery and equipment Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment Other assets $ , $ , Liabilities and Shareholders\' Equity: Current liabilities: Notes payable banks $ $ Accounts payable , Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued marketing and distribution Accrued warranty and related Accrued restructuring costs -- Other current liabilities Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt Deferred tax liabilities Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , shares issued and outstanding ( , , shares ) Retained earnings , , Other ( ) Total shareholders\' equity , , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Operations (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost sales , , , Research and development Selling, general and administrative , , , Restructuring costs ( ) ( ) , , , Operating income (loss) ( , ) Interest and other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes ( , ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes ( ) Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share $( ) $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings(loss) per share ( thousands) , , , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Common Stock Total Shares Retained Shareholders\' ( thousands) Amount Earnings Other Equity Balance September , , $ $ , $( ) $ , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- Net income -- -- -- Balance September , , , ( ) , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- Change unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities -- -- -- Net income -- -- -- Other -- -- -- Balance September , , , , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Net loss -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Balance September , , $ $ , $( ) $ , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows (Dollars millions) Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the period $ $ , $ Operating: Net income (loss) ( ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) cash generated (used for) operations: Depreciation and amortization Net book value property, plant, and equipment retirements Changes assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) Inventories , ( ) Deferred tax assets ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) Accounts payable ( ) Accrued restructuring costs ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities ( ) Deferred tax liabilities ( ) Cash generated (used for) operating activities ( ) Investing: Purchase short-term investments ( ) ( , ) ( ) Proceeds from sale short-term investments , Purchase property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used for investing activities ( ) ( ) ( ) Financing: Increase (decrease) notes payable banks ( ) ( ) Increase (decrease) long-term borrowings ( ) Increases common stock, net related tax benefits Cash dividends ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash generated (used for) financing activities ( ) Total cash generated (used) ( ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the period $ , $ $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for: Interest $ $ $ Income taxes, net $ $ $ Noncash transaction: tax benefit from stock options $ $ $ See accompanying notes. Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Nature Operations Apple Computer (the "Company") designs, manufactures, and markets microprocessor-based personal computers and related personal computing products for sale primarily education, home, business, and government customers. Basis Presentation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company\' fiscal year-end the last Friday September. Accounting Estimates General The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Significant Accounting Estimates Reserves Against Inventories The Company\' reserves against inventories are based the Company\' best estimates product sales prices and customer demand patterns, and its plans transition its products. However, the Company participates highly competitive industry that characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressures gross margins, frequent introductions new products, short product life cycles, rapid technological advances, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, and price sensitivity and changing demand patterns the part consumers. result the industry\' ever-changing and dynamic nature, least reasonably possible that the estimates used the Company determine its reserves against inventories will materially different from the actual amounts results. These differences could result materially higher than expected inventory reserve costs, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\' results operations and financial condition the near term. Warranty and Related Accruals The Company\' warranty and related accruals are based the Company\' best estimates product failure rates and unit costs repair. However, the Company continually releasing new and ever-more complex and technologically advanced products. result, least reasonably possible that product could released with certain unknown quality and design problems. Such occurrence could result materially higher than expected warranty and related costs, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\' results operations and financial condition the near term. Deferred Tax Assets Realization approximately $ million the total deferred tax assets dependent the Company\' ability generate approximately $ million future . taxable income. Management believes that more likely than not that the asset will realized based forecasted . income. However, there can assurance that the Company will meet its expectations future . income. result, the amount the deferred tax assets considered realizable could reduced the near and long term estimates future taxable . income are reduced. Such occurrence could materially adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for valuation allowance. Summary Significant Accounting Policies Financial Instruments Investments All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short- term investments. There are investments with maturities greater than twelve months. The Company\' cash equivalents consist primarily . Government securities, Euro-dollar deposits, and commercial paper. Short-term investments consist principally Euro-dollar deposits and commercial paper. The Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments are generally held until maturity. The Company\' marketable equity securities consist securities issued . corporations and are included "Other assets" the accompanying balance sheets. Management determines the appropriate classification its debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. These unrealized gains losses include any unrealized losses and gains interest rate contracts accounted for hedges against the available-for-sale securities. Equity securities that are not considered marketable defined are carried cost. Realized gains and losses the sale securities are included interest and other income (expense), net. The cost securities sold based the specific identification method. Financial Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet Risk the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off- balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. The Company does not hold transact financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are recorded currently income shareholder\' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred until the occurrence the hedged transactions. Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange contracts that not qualify accounting hedges are recorded currently income. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Interest Rate Derivatives The Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. addition, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts hedge certain intercompany loan transactions. These forward contracts effectively change certain foreign currency denominated debt into . dollar denominated debt, which better matches against the Company\' . dollar denominated cash equivalents and short-term investments. Foreign Currency Instruments The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with certain firmly committed and certain other probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company\' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal . dollar value terms their historically high correlation with the . dollar. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products currencies other than the . dollar. majority these non- . dollar-based sales are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge certain other probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase foreign exchange option contracts used hedge both firmly committed and certain other probable but not firmly committed transactions. addition, the Company enters into other foreign exchange transactions, which are intended reduce the costs associated with its foreign exchange risk management programs. The duration foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions for probable but not firmly committed transactions, currently does not exceed one year. For further information regarding the Company\' accounting treatment its financial instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment stated cost. Depreciation and amortization computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets. Long-Lived Assets Effective September , , the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standard . ("FAS "), "Accounting for the Impairment Long- Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed ." accordance with FAS , prior period financial statements have not been restated reflect this change accounting principle and the cumulative effect this change was not material. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has not elected early adoption Financial Accounting Standard . ("FAS "), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." FAS becomes effective for the Company , and will have impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition the Company has elected continue measuring compensation expense for its stock-based employee compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed APB Opinion . , "Accounting for Stock Issued Employees." However, the Company will provide pro forma disclosures net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method prescribed FAS had been applied measuring compensation expense. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its foreign sales subsidiaries year-end exchange rates. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged "accumulated translation adjustment" included shareholders\' equity. The foreign manufacturing and certain other entities use the . dollar the functional currency and translate monetary assets and liabilities year-end exchange rates, and inventories, property, and non-monetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations are included the results operations and are immaterial. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue the time products are shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns and price protection that may occur under Company programs. Historically, actual amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied significantly from estimated amounts. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are charged expense the first time the advertising takes place. Earnings (Loss) per Share Earnings (loss) per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding and ( and only) the dilutive effect common stock options using the treasury stock method. Common stock options, the convertible subordinated notes, and certain common shares issued pending shareholder approval were not included the computation loss per share their effect was antidilutive. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts the Industry Segment and Geographic Information footnote have been reclassified conform the current year\' presentation. Financial Instruments Investments The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities September , : ( millions) Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value . Treasury securities and obligations . government agencies $ $ -- $ -- $ . corporate debt securities -- -- Foreign government securities , -- -- , Total included cash and cash equivalents $ , $ -- $ -- $ , . corporate debt securities $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Foreign government securities -- -- Total included short-term investments $ $ -- $ -- $ Equity securities $ -- $ $ -- $ Total included other assets $ -- $ $ -- $ Total $ , $ $ -- $ , The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities September , : ( millions) Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value . Treasury securities and obligations . government agencies $ $ -- $ -- $ . corporate debt securities -- -- Foreign government securities -- Total included cash and cash equivalents $ $ $ -- $ . corporate debt securities $ $ -- $ -- $ Foreign government securities -- -- Total included short-term investments$ $ -- $ -- $ Equity securities $ $ $ -- $ Total included other assets $ $ $ -- $ Total $ , $ $ -- $ , The gross realized gains recorded earnings sales available-for-sale securities, well the related cash proceeds from those sales, were $ million and $ million and , respectively. There were gross realized losses recorded earnings sales available-for-sale securities . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balance September , , includes $ million pledged primarily collateral support letters credit, and September , , includes $ million pledged collateral support notes payable banks. Interest Rate Derivatives and Foreign Currency Instruments The table page shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , , and September , . The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table below represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table below reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. ( millions) Credit Credit Notional Fair Risk Notional Fair Risk Principal Value Amount Principal Value Amount Transactions Qualifying Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps $ $ ( ) $ -- $ $ ( ) $ Interest rate collars $ $ -- $ -- $ $ -- $ -- Purchased floors $ $ $ $ -- $ -- $ -- Sold options $ -- $ -- $ -- $ $ -- $ -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Transactions Other Than Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps $ -- $ -- $ -- $ $ -- $ -- Sold options $ -- $ -- $ -- $ $ ( ) $ -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts $ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Purchased options $ $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options $ $ ( ) $ -- $ , $ ( ) $ -- The interest rate swaps generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. result, these swaps effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate ten-year debt floating-rate debt and generally qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Maturity dates for these swaps currently range from one seven years. September , , and September , , interest rate swaps classified receive-fixed swaps had weighted average receive rates % and %, respectively. Weighted average pay rates these swaps were % and % September , , and September , , respectively. The unrealized gains and losses these swaps are generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. Interest rate collars limit the Company\' exposure fluctuations short- term interest rates locking range interest rates. interest rate collar -cost structure that consists purchased option and sold option. The Company receives payment when the three-month LIBOR falls below predetermined levels, and makes payment when the three- month LIBOR rises above predetermined levels. The entire structure generally qualifies accounting hedge. Purchased floors limit the Company\' exposure falling interest rates its cash equivalents and short-term investments locking minimum interest rate. The Company receives payment when interest rates fall below predetermined level. purchased floor generally qualifies for hedge accounting treatment and reported the balance sheet its premium cost, which amortized over the life the floor. The interest rate collars and purchased floors are generally designated and effective hedges against interest rate risk the Company\' debt securities classified available-for-sale and are carried fair value adjustment the basis the underlying security. The related unrealized gains and losses,net taxes, are reported component shareholders\' equity and are recognized income the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , , and September , . Interest rate option contracts require the Company make payments should certain interest rates either fall below rise above predetermined levels. These contracts are generally not accounted for hedges and are carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are also carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. All foreign exchange forward contracts expire within one year. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts that are designated and effective hedges are amortized over the life the option. the option contract designated and effective hedge firmly committed transaction, probable but not firmly committed transaction, then any gain loss deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , , and September , . the option contract used hedge asset liability, then the hedge carried fair value with gains losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses gains the hedged transaction. September , , maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts ranged from one twelve months. The purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. September , , maturity dates for sold option contracts ranged from one six months. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Notes Payable Banks The weighted average interest rates for Japanese yen-denominated notes payable banks September , , and September , , were approximately % and %, respectively. The Company had . dollar-denominated notes payable banks September , . The weighted average interest rate for . dollar-denominated notes payable banks September , , was approximately %. The carrying amount notes payable banks approximates their fair value due their short-term maturities. Long-Term Debt During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the "Notes") certain qualified parties private placement. The Notes were sold % par. The Notes pay interest semi-annually and mature June , . The Notes are convertible their holders any time after September , conversion price $ per share subject adjustments defined the Note agreement. The Notes are redeemable the Company % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve-month period beginning June , , and % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve-month period beginning June , . The Notes are subordinated all present and future senior indebtedness the Company defined the Note agreement. addition, the Company incurred approximately $ million costs associated with the issuance the Notes. These costs are accounted for deduction from the face amount the Notes and are being amortized over the life the Notes. October , the Company registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission $ million the aggregate principal amount the Notes, including the related common shares issuable upon conversion these Notes. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . The carrying amounts and estimated fair values the Company\' long- term debt are follows: ( millions) Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Amount Value Amount Value Ten-year unsecured notes $ $ $ $ Convertible subordinated notes ( ) $ $ $ -- $ -- Other $ $ $ $ ( ) The carrying amount the convertible subordinated note prior consideration the related issuance costs. The fair value the ten-year unsecured notes based their listed market value September , . The fair value the convertible subordinated notes based estimates from several financial institutions. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, consists the following: ( millions) Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss) ( ) Net premiums and discounts earned (paid) foreign exchange instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Realized gains the sale available-for-sale and other securities -- Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) -- $ $( ) $( ) Concentrations Risk Concentrations Credit Risk The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and various education and consumer channels. Concentrations credit risk with respect trade receivables are limited because flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and because the Company\' customer base consists large numbers geographically diverse customers dispersed across several industries. such, the Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe that there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the number agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' ten-year unsecured notes. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. Margining under these agreements does not start until . Furthermore, these agreements would require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds were exceeded. Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, "ASICs") are currently obtained the Company from single sources. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed, the Company\' ability ship the related product utilizing such component desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portion the Company\' CPUs and logic boards are now manufactured SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI"). Although the Company works closely with SCI manufacturing schedules and levels, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected SCI were unable meet its production obligations. Significant Customers customer accounted for more than % the Company\' net sales , , . Advertising Costs Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Restructuring Operations the second quarter , the Company announced and began implement restructuring plan aimed reducing costs and restoring profitability the Company\' operations. The restructuring plan was necessitated decreased demand for Company products and the Company\' adoption new strategic direction. The Company\' restructuring actions consist primarily terminating approximately , full-time employees (down from initial planned termination approximately , ), approximately whom have been terminated through September , , excluding employees who were hired SCI Systems, Inc. and MCI Systemhouse, the purchasers the Company\' Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility and the Napa, California, data center facility, respectively);canceling vacating certain facility leases result these employee terminations; writing down certain land, buildings and equipment sold result downsizing operations and outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling contracts result terminating eWorld, Apple\' -line service. These actions resulted initial charge $ million. The charge was adjusted downward $ million the fourth quarter , primarily result greater than expected voluntary terminations, which led fewer than planned involuntary terminations, well lower than expected costs cancel vacate certain facility leases, partially offset greater than expected costs cancel certain contracts and write down certain operating assets sold sold. The restructuring actions have resulted cash expenditures $ million and noncash asset write-downs $ million through September , . The Company expects that the remaining $ million accrued balance September , , will result cash expenditures approximately $ million over the next twelve months and approximately $ million thereafter. The Company expects that most the contemplated restructuring actions will completed within the next six months and will financed through current working capital and continued short-term borrowings. The following table depicts the restructuring activity through September , : ( millions) Total Adjustments: Balance Restructuring Increase/ September , Category Charge Spending (Decrease) Payments employees involuntarily terminated ( ) $ $( ) $( ) $ Payments canceled vacated facility leases ( ) ( ) ( ) Write-down operating assets sold ( ) ( ) Payments canceled contracts ( ) ( ) $ $( ) $( ) $ ( ): Cash; ( ): Noncash. the third quarter , the Company initiated plan restructure its operations worldwide order address the competitive conditions the personal computer industry. connection with this plan, the Company recorded $ million charge operating expenses. and , the Company lowered its estimate the total costs associated with this restructuring and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million and $ million, respectively. These adjustments primarily reflected the modification cancelation certain elements the Company\' original restructuring plan because changing business and economic conditions that made certain elements the restructuring plan financially less attractive than originally anticipated. addition, some actions were completed lower cost than originally estimated. Income Taxes The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists the following: ( millions) Federal: Current $( ) $ $ Deferred ( ) ( ) State: Current ( ) Deferred ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current ( ) Deferred ( ) ( ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $( ) $ $ The foreign provision (benefit) for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings (loss) approximately $( ) million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Except for such indefinitely reinvested earnings, the Company provides for federal and state income taxes currently undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were: ( millions) September , September , Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves Basis capital assets and investments Tax losses and credits -- Total deferred tax assets Less: Valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Other Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset (liability) $ $( ) September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire principally . Substantially all the remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. The net change the total valuation allowance was negligible and increase $ million . reconciliation the provision (benefit) for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes, follows: ( millions) Computed expected tax $( ) $ $ State taxes, net federal benefit ( ) Research and development tax credit -- ( ) ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries -- ( ) ( ) Valuation allowance -- Other individually immaterial items Provision (benefit) for income taxes $( ) $ $ Effective tax rate % % % The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies for the years through , and most the issues dispute for these years have been resolved. June , , the IRS issued notice deficiency proposing increases the amount the Company\' federal income taxes for the years through . The Company has filed petition with the United States Tax Court contest these alleged tax deficiencies. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from these tax examinations. Common Stock Shareholder Rights Plan May , the Company adopted shareholder rights plan and distributed dividend one right purchase one share common stock ( "Right") for each outstanding share common stock the Company. The Rights become exercisable certain limited circumstances involving potential business combination transaction the Company and are initially exercisable price $ per share. Following certain other events after the Rights have become exercisable, each Right entitles its holder purchase for $ amount common stock the Company, , certain circumstances, securities the acquiror, having then- current market value two times the exercise price the Right. The Rights are redeemable and may amended the Company\' option before they become exercisable. Until Right exercised, the holder Right, such, has rights shareholder the Company. The Rights expire April , . Stock Option Plans The Company has effect Stock Option Plan (the " Plan"). The Stock Option Plan terminated October and the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan (the " Plan") terminated July . Options granted before those plan termination dates remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan employees, including officers and directors who are employees, not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period three years, based continued employment, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and stock appreciation rights. December , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . July , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million. December , the Board Directors adopted new amendment reduce this increase million shares. This new amendment was approved the Company\' shareholders January . Also July , the Board Directors resolved terminate the Plan and transfer all unused shares remaining under the Plan the Plan. This resolution was approved the Company\' shareholders January . March , the Board Directors approved the issuance options purchase million shares common stock the Chief Executive Officer the Company, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . These options will have exercise price $ per share and will become exercisable over five years. the issuance these options pending shareholder approval, they are not included outstanding the table below. May , , the Board Directors adopted resolution allowing employees and including the level Vice President exchange options their existing option price for new options having exercise price $ per share, the fair market value the Company\' common stock May , . Options received under this program are subject one year additional vesting such that the new vesting date for each vesting portion will the later May , , and the original vesting date plus one year. Approximately million options were exchanged under this program. Summarized information regarding the Company\' stock option plans September , , follows: ( thousands, except per share amounts) Number Shares Price per Share Outstanding September , , $ - $ Granted , Exercised ( ) $ - $ Expired canceled ( , ) Outstanding September , , $ - $ Exercisable , Reserved for issuance , Available for future grant , Restricted Stock Plan April , , the Company\' Board Directors approved Restricted Stock Plan for officers the Company (the "RSP"), which became effective July , . The RSP was subsequently ratified the shareholders January , . The RSP designed provide incentive for officers continue own shares the Company\' common stock acquired upon exercise options under any the Company\' stock option plans, thus more closely aligning officers\' financial interests with those the shareholders. The RSP provides that officers who exercise stock options and continue hold the exercised shares for least three years will receive three awards shares restricted stock. Each such award for one-third the number shares held for the requisite retention period. Each restricted stock award granted pursuant the plan becomes fully vested three years after the grant date, provided that the officer maintains continuous employment with the Company and that other vesting requirements are met. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the "Purchase Plan") under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end the offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. September , , approximately , shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. December , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Purchase Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . July , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Purchase Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million. December , the Board Directors adopted new amendment reduce this increase million shares. This new amendment was approved the Company\' shareholders January . Chief Executive Officer Performance Shares February , the Board Directors approved the issuance million shares common stock (the "Performance Shares") the Chief Executive Officer the Company, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . The Company may issue , Performance Shares for each full fiscal year during the five-year term the Chief Executive Officer\' employment agreement, which began February , . For each partial fiscal year during the term this agreement, the number shares that may issued shall prorated reflect that partial year. The issuance the Performance Shares subject the achievement certain performance goals established the Board Directors the beginning the employment agreement and the beginning each subsequent fiscal year during the term the employment agreement. these Performance Shares are pending shareholder approval, they are not included outstanding the accompanying balance sheet. However, the related estimated compensation expense included the results operations and immaterial. The Performance Shares for years after will become part the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan (refer discussion below) upon approval the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan the Company\' shareholders the Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan December , the Company\' Board Directors approved Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan (the "Performance Share Plan") for which officers the Company the level Senior Vice President and above, and other key employees recommended management and designated the Compensation Committee the Board, will eligible. The Performance Share Plan provides for grant shares each eligible participant, with annual vesting conditioned the achievement performance goals established advance the Compensation Committee and subject such other terms may determined the Committee. The Performance Share Plan intended provide incentive for superior performance, promote the maintenance substantial stock ownership levels officers the Corporation, and enable the Corporation attract and retain highly qualified executive officers. The Company\' Board Directors has reserved million shares for issuance under the provisions the Performance Share Plan. The Performance Share Plan subject shareholder approval the Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . Stock Repurchase Programs November , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. Approximately million shares remain authorized for repurchase. shares were repurchased under this authorization , , . Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the "Savings Plan") that qualifies deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pretax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). Effective October , , the Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. Prior October , , the Company matched % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms five ten years and generally provide renewal options for terms five additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under these noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows: ( millions) $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ Purchase Commitment connection with the sale its Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI"), the Company obligated purchase certain percentages its total annual volumes CPUs and logic boards from SCI over each the next three years. The Company has met these obligations through September , , and believes will meet them the future. Litigation Abraham and Evelyn Kostick Trust . Peter Crisp . January , purported shareholder class action was filed the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming the Company and its directors defendants. The complaint sought injunctive relief and damages and alleged that acts mismanagement resulted depressed price for the Company. February , the complaint was amended add former director defendant and add purported class and derivative claims based theories such breach fiduciary duty, misrepresentation, and insider trading. July , the Court sustained defendants\' demurrer and dismissed the amended complaint variety grounds and granted plaintiffs leave amend the complaint. October , the plaintiffs filed second amended complaint naming the Company\' directors and certain former directors defendants and again alleging purported class and derivative claims, seeking injunctive relief and damages (compensatory and punitive) based theories such breach fiduciary duty, misrepresentation, and insider trading. November , the Company filed demurrer seeking dismissal the second amended complaint. Derek Pritchard . Michael Spindler . March , purported shareholder class action was filed the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming certain current and former directors the Company defendants. The complaint sought damages and alleged that the defendants breached their fiduciary duty allegedly rejecting offer from computer company (not named the complaint) acquire the Company price excess $ per share. August , the Court sustained defendants\' demurrer and dismissed the complaint variety grounds, and granted plaintiff leave amend the complaint. October , the plaintiff filed his first amended complaint which asserted the same purported cause action the original complaint, alleged additional facts purportedly support thereof, and added the Company defendant. The Company intends file demurrer seeking dismissal the first amended complaint. Men\' Clothing Defined Benefit Pension Fund . Michael Spindler . May , action was filed the California Superior Court for Alameda County naming defendants the Company and certain its current and former officers and directors. The complaint seeks compensatory and punitive damages and generally alleges that the defendants misrepresented omitted material facts about the Company\' operations and financial results, which plaintiff contends artificially inflated the price the Company\' stock. The case has been transferred the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County. None the defendants has yet responded the complaint. "Repetitive Stress Injury" Litigation The Company named numerous lawsuits (fewer than ) alleging that the plaintiff incurred -called "repetitive stress injury" the upper extremities result using keyboards and mouse input devices sold the Company. October , , trial one these cases (Dorsey . Apple) the United States District Court for the Eastern District New York, the jury rendered verdict favor the Company, and final judgement favor the Company has been entered. The other cases are various stages pretrial activity. These suits are similar those filed against other major suppliers personal computers. Ultimate resolution the litigation against the Company may depend progress resolving this type litigation the industry overall. Monitor-Size Litigation August , the Company was named, along with other entities, including computer manufacturers and computer monitor vendors, putative nationwide class action filed the California Superior Court for Orange County, styled Keith Long . . AAmazing Technologies Corp. . The complaint alleges that each the defendants engaged false misleading advertising with respect the size computer monitor screens. Also August , the Company was named the sole defendant purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Camden County, entitled Mahendri Shah . Apple Computer, Inc. Subsequently, November , the Company, along with other entities, was named purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Essex County, entitled Maizes & Maizes . Apple Computer, Inc. . Similar putative class actions have been filed other California counties which the Company was not named defendant. The complaints all these cases seek restitution the form refunds product exchange, damages, punitive damages, and attorneys fees. December , the California Judicial Council ordered all the California actions, including Long, coordinated for purposes pretrial proceedings and trial before single judge, the Honorable William Cahill, sitting the County San Francisco. All the California actions were subsequently coordinated under the name Computer Monitor Litigation and master consolidated complaint filed superseding all the individual complaints those actions. July , , Judge Cahill ordered all the California cases dismissed without leave amend plaintiffs residing California the ground that stipulated judgment entered September prior action brought the California Attorney General alleging the same cause action was res judicata the plaintiffs the consolidated California class action suits. This order may subject appellate review later stage the proceedings. Both the New Jersey cases and the consolidated California cases are preliminary stage, with discovery having taken place. The Company has various claims, lawsuits, disputes with third parties, investigations, and pending actions involving allegations false misleading advertising, product defects, discrimination, infringement intellectual property rights, and breach contract and other matters against the Company and its subsidiaries incident the operation its business. The liability, any, associated with these matters not determinable. The Company believes the resolution the foregoing actions will not have material adverse effect its financial condition. However, depending the amount and timing any unfavorable resolution these lawsuits, possible that the Company\' results operations could materially affected particular period. Industry Segment and Geographic Information The Company operates one principal industry segment: the design, manufacture, and sale personal computing products. The Company\' products are sold primarily the business, education, home, and government markets. Geographic financial information follows: ( millions) Net sales unaffiliated customers: Americas $ , $ , $ , EMEA , , , Japan , , , Asia Pacific Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Transfers between geographic areas (eliminated consolidation): Americas $ $ $ EMEA Japan -- -- -- Asia Pacific , , , Total transfers $ , $ , $ , Operating income (loss): Americas $( , )$ ( ) $ ( ) EMEA ( ) Japan ( ) Asia Pacific Eliminations ( ) Corporate income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Income (loss) before income taxes $( , )$ $ Identifiable assets: Americas $ , $ , $ , EMEA Japan Asia Pacific Eliminations ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate assets , , Total assets $ , $ , $ , "Americas" comprises North and South America. "EMEA" abbreviation for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. "Asia Pacific" does not include Japan. Prior year amounts have been restated conform the current year\' presentation. "Net sales unaffiliated customers" based the location the customers. Transfers between geographic areas are recorded amounts generally above cost and accordance with the rules and regulations the respective governing tax authorities. Operating income (loss) geographic area consists total net sales less operating expenses, and does not include allocation general corporate expenses. The restructuring charges recorded , and the adjustments recorded and the restructuring charges recorded , are included the calculation operating income (loss) for each geographic area. Identifiable assets geographic areas are those assets used the Company\' operations each area. Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, equity securities, and joint venture investments. large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations, and majority the products sold internationally are manufactured the Company\' facilities Cork, Ireland; and Singapore. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ ( ) $ Net income(loss)$ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share $ $( ) $( ) $( ) Cash dividends declared per common share $ --- $ --- $ --- $ Price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ Price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ September , , there were , shareholders record. The Company began declaring quarterly cash dividends its common stock April . The dividend policy determined the Board Directors and dependent the Company\' earnings, capital requirements financial condition and other factors. The Company suspended paying dividends its common stock beginning the second quarter . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per common share represents the highest and lowest prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. Net income for the fourth quarter includes adjustment the restructuring charge that increased income $ million. Net loss for the second quarter includes $ million charge for the write-down certain inventory and related actions, well $ million restructuring charge. Net income for the third and first quarters includes adjustments the restructuring charge that increased income $ million and $ million, respectively. Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding directors the Registrant set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Company found under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant" Part hereof also incorporated reference into this Item . Item . Executive Compensation Information regarding executive compensation set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Change Control Arrangements", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation", and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation ", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", and "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", which information hereby incorporated reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedule The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - Current Reports Form - were filed Apple with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibits Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through November , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). - Form % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , ). Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . * Footnotes appear page . ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . 88K** Form Director Warrant. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through September , . ** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through September , . ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan ** Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective January , - ** Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ** Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ** Separation Agreement dated December , , between Registrant and Daniel Eilers. ** Separation Agreement dated October , , between Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. ** Letter Agreement dated May , , between Registrant and Jeanne Seeley. ** Separation Agreement effective March , , between Registrant and Michael . Spindler. ** Letter Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and James . Buckley. ** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Computation earnings (loss) per common share. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. * Footnotes appear page . NOTES 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . - - , - - , - , - - Incorporated reference exhibits , , , and , respectively, the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedule See Item ( )( ) this Form - . (Exhibit ) CONSENT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS consent the incorporation reference the Registration Statements (Form - Nos. - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - - , - , - , - , - , - , and - ) pertaining the and Stock Option Plans, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Key Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan, the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan, the Executive Restricted Stock Plan, and the Form Director Warrant Apple Computer, Inc. and Form - . - and Form - . - the related Prospectuses our report dated October , with respect the consolidated financial statements and schedule Apple Computer, Inc. included this Annual Report (Form - ) for the year ended September , . / / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California December , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (Registrant) : / Gilbert . Amelio GILBERT . AMELIO Chairman and Chief Executive Officer December , KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Gilbert . Amelio and George . Scalise, jointly and severally, his her attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him her any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: / / Gilbert . Amelio / / Fred . Anderson GILBERT . AMELIO FRED . ANDERSON Chairman and Executive Vice President, and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer (Principal Executive Officer), (Principal Financial Officer) and Director December , December , / / . . Markkula, . / / Delano . Lewis . . MARKKULA, . DELANO . LEWIS Director Director December , December , / / Bernard Goldstein / / Edgar . Woolard, . BERNARD GOLDSTEIN EDGAR . WOOLARD, . Director Director December , December , / / . Jurgen Hintz / / Gareth . . Chang . JURGEN HINTZ GARETH . . CHANG Director Director December , December , / / Katherine Hudson KATHERINE . HUDSON Director December , Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( millions) Charged Allowance for Beginning Costs and Ending Doubtful Accounts: Balance Expenses Deductions ( ) Balance Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . ( ) Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . ( ) -Laws the Company, amended through April , . ( ) Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. ( ) Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . ( ) Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). ( ) Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . ( ) Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. ( ) Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , .). ( ) Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Form the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended. ( ) Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . ( ) Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . ( ) Form Director Warrant. Stock Option Plan, amended through September , . Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through September , . ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ( ) Executive Restricted Stock Plan. ( ) Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective January , . ( ) Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ( ) Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ( ) Separation Agreement dated December , , between Registrant and Daniel Eilers. ( ) Separation Agreement dated October , , between Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. ( ) Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ( ) Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ( ) Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ( ) Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ( ) Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ( ) Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ( ) Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ( ) Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ( ) Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. ( ) Letter Agreement dated May , , between Registrant and Jeanne Seeley. ( ) Separation Agreement effective March , , between Registrant and Michael . Spindler. ( ) Letter Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and James . Buckley. Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ( ) Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. ( ) Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. ( ) Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. ( ) Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. ( ) Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. ( ) Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Computation earnings (loss) per common share. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe and the Pacific. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms five additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, service and support center. addition, the Company owns the research and development facility located Cupertino, California, which approximates , square feet. Outside the United States, the Company owns facility Apeldoorn, Netherlands, which used primarily for distribution, totaling approximately , square feet, and certain other international facilities, totaling approximately , square feet. Certain facilities Sacramento, California; Apeldoorn, Netherlands and the United Kingdom are currently being held for sale part the Company\' restructuring plan, which includes increasing the proportion the Company\' products manufactured and distributed under outsourcing arrangements. Further information regarding the Company\' restructuring plan, may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheadings "Restructuring Operations" and "Inventory and Supply" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Restructuring Operations," under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product" included under the heading "Concentrations Risk," and under the subheading "Purchase Commitment" included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. The Company believes that its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested additional internal capacity and external partnerships, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future even after the sale the foregoing facilities. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Other Factors" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition", which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings Information regarding legal proceedings set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Litigation," included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . Executive Officers the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding the executive officers the Company December , : Gilbert . Amelio*, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (age ). . Amelio joined the Company\' Board Directors November and was elected Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer February . From February , . Amelio was President and Chief Executive Officer National Semicondutor Corporation, manufacturer semiconductors. Previously, served president Rockwell Communications Systems, subsidiary Rockwell International. currently director Pacific Telesis Group, communications and information services company. Fred . Anderson*, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ). . Anderson joined the Company April Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ("ADP"), computing services company, from August March . Prior joining ADP, . Anderson held several domestic and international executive positions MAI Basic Four, Inc., including President and Chief Operating Officer. Ellen . Hancock, Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer (age ). . Hancock joined the Company July Executive Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer. From September May , she was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer National Semiconductor Corporation, manufacturer semiconductors. Prior her employment with National Semiconductor, she was Senior Vice President and Group Executive the Networking Hardware, Networking Software, and Software Solutions divisions International Business Machines ("IBM") from - . Marco Landi*, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (age ). . Landi joined the Company March , Senior Vice President and President Apple Europe assume responsibility for all Apple\' business operations throughout Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and June was promoted Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Prior joining the Company, . Landi was employed Texas Instruments (" ") Europe President Europe, Middle East, and Africa, responsible for all \' business operations those regions. Prior that assignment, . Landi served for two years President Asia. George . Scalise*, Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer (age ). . Scalise joined the Company March Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. Prior joining the Company, . Scalise was Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer National Semiconductor Corporation. Robert . Calderoni, Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations Controller (age ). . Calderoni joined the Company July his present position. Previously, from February July , was Vice President, Finance, for Storage Systems IBM, and from February was Director Finance IBM. Prior held various finance positions IBM. Satjiv Chahil, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Corporate Marketing (age ). . Chahil joined the Company Director Marketing for Apple Pacific . subsequently served Vice President , New Media and Vice President, Entertainment Industry. January . Chahil was named Senior Vice President, Corporate Marketing. Therese Kreig Crane, Senior Vice President, Strategic Market Segments (age ). . Crane joined the Company business development manager. She served variety marketing positions until , when she was named Vice President - Education Sales for the Apple USA division. she was promoted Senior Vice President, Education Market Division for Apple Americas. . Crane was named Senior Vice President, Strategic Market Segments June . Guerrino Luca, Senior Vice President, Apple Computer, Inc. and President, Claris Corporation (age ). . DeLuca, who joined the Company , was promoted Vice President, Marketing, for Apple Europe . served Vice President and General Manager the Personal Interactive Electronics Group for Apple Europe , and Vice President Marketing and Sales for the Company\' software division . was named President Claris Corporation, subsidiary the Company that develops, manufactures and markets software applications. . Luca was made Senior Vice President the Company . Michael . Dionne, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Apple Assist (age ). . Dionne, who joined the Company , was promoted Senior Vice President . Sales July . was named Vice President Marketing Operations for the Apple USA division May and June , was named Vice President Worldwide Communications and Marketing Services. . Dionne was promoted Senior Vice President, Business Markets Division, Apple Americas January , and was named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Apple Assist July . John Floisand*, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales (age ). . Floisand joined the Company May , Director Sales, Apple Computer, Ltd., United Kingdom. October , . Floisand was named Director Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division, and February was promoted Vice President, Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division. . Floisand was named Vice President and President, Apple Pacific August . October , . Floisand was promoted Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific, and June was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales. . Frederick Forsyth, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Power Macintosh Products Group (age ). . Forsyth joined the Company June , Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing, Apple Products Division. . Forsyth was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing November , and April was promoted Senior Vice President and General Manager, Macintosh Systems Division. From June June , . Forsyth served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. assumed his present position June . James . Groff, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Information Appliance Products Division (age ). . Groff joined the Company when Apple acquired Network Innovations Corporation, networking software company -founded . After the acquisition, . Groff remained President that company. From was Vice President and General Manager the Apple Business Systems division. was named Vice President Worldwide Education for the Worldwide Marketing and Customer Solutions division. After leaving the Company for brief period , returned June Senior Vice President and General Manager, Information Appliance Products Division. Howard . Lee, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Servers and Alternate Platform Products Division (age ). . Lee joined the Company September , Vice President, Macintosh Systems, and was named his present position June . From , . Lee served Vice President Engineering, SPARC Technology, Sun Microsystems, Inc., developer, manufacturer and marketer computer workstations. Jane . Risser, Vice President and Treasurer (age ). . Risser, who joined the Company , was named her present position May . From May , she held the position Director Corporate Finance. She was previously the Director Investor Relations. Douglas . Solomon, Vice President, Strategic Planning and Vice President, Corporate Development (age ). . Solomon, who joined the Company , was named Director, Corporate Development, May . December , was promoted Vice President, Corporate Development, and July the additional position Vice President, Strategic Planning. Patricia Sharp, Senior Vice President, Human Resources (age ). . Sharp was promoted her present position December . From July December , she served Vice President, Human Resources, for the Advanced Technology Group and from April July , she was Senior Director, Human Resources, research and development. Prior that assignment, she held various managerial positions within the Human Resources organization. *Information regarding employment agreements between certain executive officers and the Company set forth the section entitled "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Change Control Arrangements" and "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers" the Company\' Proxy Statement, which information hereby incorporated reference. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant\' Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. Options are traded the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the American Stock Exchange. Information regarding the Company\' high and low reported closing prices for its common stock and the number shareholders record set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)", which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere this Form - . (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) ANNUAL Five fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $( ) $ $ $ $ Earnings (loss)per common and common equivalent share $( ) $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings(loss)per share ( thousands) , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ $ , $ $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt $ $ $ $ $ Deferred tax liabilities $ $ $ $ $ ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. All information based the Company\' fiscal calendar. (Tabular information: Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Results Operations Change Change Net sales $ , ( %) $ , % $ , Gross margin $ ( %) $ , % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Research and development $ ( %) $ % $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , ( %) $ , % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Percentage net sales % ( %) ( %) Interest and other income(expense), net $ $ ( ) % $ ( ) Net income (loss) $ ( )( %) $ % $ Earnings (loss) per share $( )( %) $ % $ : Not Meaningful Overview During the last nine months , the Company experienced significant decline net sales, units shipped, and share the personal computer market. This decline demand and the resulting losses, coupled with intense price competition throughout the industry, led the Company\' decision implement new strategic direction intended improve the Company\' competitiveness and restore its profitability. The Company has initiated programs develop and market products and services more selectively targeted education, home, and business segments. moving this new strategic direction, the Company expects reduce the number new product introductions and the number products certain categories within its current product portfolio. Net Sales Net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing $ , million, %; $ , million, %; and $ million, %; during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods , due decrease net sales Macintosh(registered trademark) computers and peripheral products such displays and printers. Total Macintosh computer unit sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods . This decline unit sales was result decline lack growth worldwide demand for all product families, which the Company believes was due principally customer concerns regarding the Company\' strategic direction, financial condition, and future prospects, and due delays the shipment certain PowerBook(registered trademark) products result quality problems. addition, unit sales peripheral products trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % during the twelve, nine and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods , for the reasons noted above. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased slightly during the twelve and three months ended September , , and decreased slightly during the nine months ended September , , compared with the same periods , primarily due continued shift product mix toward the Company\' newer products and products with multimedia configurations, offset varying degrees pricing actions across all product lines order stimulate demand. The average aggregate revenue per peripheral product was flat during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods . The average revenue per Macintosh and per peripheral unit will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including industrywide pricing pressures and increased competition. International net sales represented % net sales compared with % net sales . International net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, % and % during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods . Net sales European markets trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods , result decrease Macintosh and peripheral unit sales, partially offset increase the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh and per peripheral unit, primarily during the first part the year. Net sales Japan trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods . increase Macintosh unit sales during these periods was more than offset decrease the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh and per peripheral unit and decrease peripheral unit sales. Domestic net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % for the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the corresponding periods , resulting from decline lack growth demand for all product families. According industry source, the fourth quarter compared with the fourth quarter , the Company\' share the worldwide and . personal computer markets declined % from %, and % from %, respectively. Net sales increased $ , million, %, over , primarily due combination unit growth, higher average selling prices, and changes currency exchange rates. Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased approximately % over the prior year. This unit sales growth resulted principally from strong sales the Company\' Power Macintosh(registered trademark) products, which accounted for more than % total unit shipments during the fourth quarter , compared with % the comparable period , and from sales newer product offerings within the Performa(registered trademark) family desktop personal computers. This unit growth was partially offset declining unit sales certain the Company\' older product offerings. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased % compared with , primarily due shift product mix toward the Company\' newer products and products with multimedia configurations. International net sales represented % net sales compared with % net sales . International net sales grew % from , primarily reflecting strong net sales growth the Pacific region, particularly Japan. Domestic net sales increased % over . general, the Company\' resellers purchase products -needed basis. Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates depending changing market conditions. Unfilled orders (\'backlog\') can , and often are, canceled will. The Company attempts fill orders the requested delivery schedules. However, products may relatively short supply from time time until production volumes have reached level sufficient meet demand other production fulfillment constraints exist. The Company\' backlog was approximately $ million November , , and consisted primarily the Company\' PowerBook products, well higher-end Power Macintosh products. the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following introduction new products because overordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, well other factors affecting the Company\' backlog, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future revenue financial performance. The Company believes that net sales will remain below the level the prior year\' comparable periods through least the first quarter , not later. addition, there can assurance that the Company will able achieve sales levels the first quarter comparable the levels achieved the fourth quarter . Gross Margin Gross margin represents the difference between the Company\' net sales and its cost goods sold. The amount revenue generated the sale products influenced principally the price set the Company for its products relative competitive products. The cost goods sold based primarily the cost components and, lesser extent, direct labor costs. The type and cost components included particular configurations the Company\' products (such memory and disk drives) are often directly related the need market products configurations competitive with those other manufacturers. Competition the personal computer industry intense, and the short term, frequent changes pricing and product configuration are often necessary order remain competitive. Accordingly, gross margin percentage net sales can significantly influenced the short term actions undertaken the Company response industrywide competitive pressures. Gross margin decreased % compared with % . This decrease primarily the result $ million charge the second quarter for the write-down certain inventory, well the costs cancel excess component orders, necessitated significantly lower than expected demand for many the Company\' products, primarily its entry-level products. Also, the Company separately incurred approximately $ million charges during the last nine months provide for the estimated costs correct certain quality problems certain entry-level, Performa, PowerBook and peripheral products, covering both goods held inventory and shipped goods. The Company also incurred greater warranty expenses per unit sold during compared with . addition, this decrease gross margins due the Company\' response extreme competitive actions other companies attempting gain market share, including the Company\' pricing actions the United States, Japan and Europe across most product lines, which were partially offset decrease the cost certain product components. the first quarter , the Company took, and the Company expects that will continue take, similar pricing actions with respect number product lines. The decrease gross margin levels was slightly offset hedging gains, net the effects stronger . dollar relative certain foreign currencies. The Company\' operating and pricing strategies take into account changes exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. Gross margin increased both amount and percentage net sales compared with . The increase gross margin percentage net sales was primarily result shift product mix toward the Company\' newer, high-margin products, which included strong sales certain products within the Company\' Power Macintosh family personal computers and its Macintosh Performa family. The increase gross margin levels was affected favorably changes foreign currency exchange rates result weaker . dollar relative certain foreign currencies compared with . Although gross margin for was %, improved % during the fourth quarter, primarily result lower component costs, sales fully reserved product, and shift product mix toward the Company\' newer products and products with multimedia configurations, which tend have higher margins. There can assurance that the Company will able sustain the gross margin level achieved the fourth quarter. Gross margins will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industrywide pricing pressures, increased competition, and compressed product life cycles. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage quality problems and warranty costs, and stimulate demand for certain its products. Research and Development Change Change Research and development $ ( %) $ % $ Percentage net sales % % % Research and development expenditures decreased slightly when compared with , primarily due the termination certain third-party joint development efforts. The increase percentage net sales resulted from decrease the level net sales. The increase research and development expenditures during compared with reflected higher project- and headcount-related spending. The decrease percentage net sales was the result revenue growth over . The Company believes that continued investments research and development are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related continued, timely development new and enhanced products. The Company believes that research and development expenditures will comparable those . Selling, General and Administrative Change Change Selling, general and administrative $ , ( %) $ , % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative expenses remained relatively flat, but increased percentage net sales, compared with . The increase percentage net sales when compared with was the result reduced net sales. , selling, general and administrative expenses increased result increased advertising and channel marketing programs. The decrease percentage net sales was primarily the result the sales growth over . result its restructuring plan, the Company expects that selling, general and administrative expenditures will decrease compared with levels. Restructuring Costs For information regarding the Company\' restructuring actions, refer page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income(Expense), Net Change Change Interest and other income(expense), net $ $( ) % $( ) Interest and other income (expense), net, increased $ million income from $ million expense . This $ million favorable change primarily composed favorable variance $ million related net realized and unrealized foreign exchange hedging gains, and lower foreign exchange hedging costs, primarily result lower market and option volatility, higher . interest rates compared with rates abroad, and reduced foreign currency cash flows; increase $ million related realized gains the sale most the Company\' available-for-sale and other equity securities during ; offset $ million unfavorable variance related interest income (expense), result higher average debt balances and lower average cash balances during the year, and overall decline average interest rate yields. addition, the Company\' cost funds has increased result the downgrading from January through May its short-term debt and Moody\' Investor Services and Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency, respectively, and its long-term debt and + Moody\' Investor Services and Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency, respectively. , interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $ million expense from $ million expense . This $ million favorable change was primarily composed $ million interest income (expense) attributable higher average cash balances, higher interest rates, and interest rate hedging gains, offset part $ million unfavorable variance related realized and unrealized foreign exchange hedging losses and foreign exchange hedging costs. Market volatility and higher foreign currency balances accounted for the increased hedging costs. For summary the Company\' interest and other income (expense), net, refer page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information regarding the Company\' strategy and accounting for financial instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information regarding the Company\' notes payable banks and long-term debt, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Change Change Provision (benefit) for income taxes $( ) $ % $ Effective tax rate % % % September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. substantial portion this asset realizable based the ability offset existing deferred tax liabilities. Realization approximately $ million the asset dependent the Company\' ability generate approximately $ million future . taxable income. Management believes that more likely than not that the asset will realized based forecasted . income. However, there can assurance that the Company will meet its expectations future . income. result, the amount the deferred tax assets considered realizable could reduced the near and long term estimates future taxable . income are reduced. Such occurrence could materially adversely affect the Company\' financial results and condition. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for valuation allowance. For additional information regarding income taxes, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet dynamic customer demand patterns. Inherent this process are number factors that the Company must successfully manage order achieve favorable future operating results and financial condition. Potential risks and uncertainties that could affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition include, without limitation, continued competitive pressures the marketplace and the effect any reaction the Company such competitive pressures, including pricing actions the Company; the ability the Company make timely delivery the marketplace successful technological innovations; the effects significant adverse publicity; the Company\' ability supply products certain categories; and uncertainties concerning the Company\' ability successfully implement its new strategic direction and restructuring actions. The Company expects that will not return sustained profitability until least the second quarter , not later. Restructuring Operations During , the Company began implement certain restructuring actions aimed reducing its cost structure, improving its competitiveness, and restoring sustained profitability. There are several risks inherent the Company\' efforts transition new cost structure. These include the risk that the Company will not able reduce expenditures quickly enough restore sustained profitability and the risk that cost-cutting initiatives will impair the Company\' ability innovate and remain competitive the computer industry. part its restructuring effort, the Company has begun implement new business model. Implementation the new business model involves several risks, including the risk that simplifying its product line the Company will increase its dependence fewer products, potentially reduce overall sales, and increase its reliance unproven products and technology. Another risk the new business model that increasing the proportion the Company\' products manufactured under outsourcing arrangements, the Company could lose control the quality quantity the products manufactured, lose the flexibility make timely changes production schedules order respond changing market conditions. addition, the new business model could adversely affect employee morale, thereby damaging the Company\' ability retain and motivate employees. Also, because the new business model contemplates that the Company will rely greater extent collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, the Company will have less direct control over certain its research and development efforts, and its ability create innovative new products may reduced. Finally, even the new business model successfully implemented, there can assurance that will effectively resolve the various issues currently facing the Company. addition, although the Company believes that the actions taking under its restructuring plan should help restore marketplace confidence the Macintosh platform, there can assurance that such actions will successful. For the foregoing reasons there can assurance that the current restructuring actions will achieve their goals that similar actions will not required the future. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected should encounter difficulty effectively managing the transition the new business model and cost structure. For more information regarding the Company\' restructuring actions initiated the second quarter , refer page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Product Introductions and Transitions Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company frequently introduces new products and product enhancements. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. addition, although the number new product introductions may decrease under the Company\' new business model, the risks and uncertainties associated with new product introductions may increase the Company refocuses its product offerings key growth segments. The rate product shipments immediately following introduction new product not necessarily indication the future rate shipments for that product, which depends many factors, some which are not under the control the Company. These factors may include initial large purchases small segment the user population that tends purchase new technology prior its acceptance the majority users ("early adopters"); purchases satisfaction pent- demand users who anticipated new technology and, result, deferred purchases other products; and overordering dealers who anticipate shortages due the aforementioned factors. These factors may offset others, such the deferral purchases many users until new technology accepted "proven" and for which commonly used software products are available; and the reduction orders dealers once they believe they can obtain sufficient supply products previously backlog. Backlog often volatile after new product introductions due the aforementioned demand factors, often increasing coincident with introduction, and then decreasing once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply the new products. The measurement demand for newly introduced products further complicated the availability different product configurations, which may include various types built- peripherals and software. Configurations may also require certain localization (such language) for various markets and, result, demand different geographic areas may function the availability third-party software those localized versions. For example, the availability European-language versions software products manufactured . producers may lag behind the availability . versions quarter more. This may result lower initial demand for the Company\' new products outside the United States, even though localized versions the Company\' products may available. The increasing integration functions and complexity operations the Company\' products also increase the risk that latent defects other faults could discovered customers end-users after volumes products have been produced shipped. such defects were significant, the Company could incur material recall and replacement costs under product warranties. Competition The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. During , the Company\' results operations and financial condition were, and the future may continue , adversely affected industrywide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality and hardware performance and features based existing emerging industry standards. Many the Company\' competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources; broader product lines; and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected overall demand for personal computers and general customer preferences for one platform over another one set product features over another. The Company currently the primary maker hardware that uses the Macintosh operating system ("Mac(registered trademark) "). The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers that run the -DOS and Microsoft Windows operating systems. The Company believes that the Mac , with its perceived advantages over -DOS and Windows, has been driving force behind sales the Company\' personal computer hardware for the past several years. Recent innovations the Windows platform, including those introduced Windows , have added features the Windows platform similar those offered the Mac . The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result the recent innovations the Windows platform. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected its ability maintain and increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform. The Company recently announced new strategy with respect updating its operating system while redesigning its plan for next- generation operating system. extend the life its current operating system, the Company intends issue periodic releases consisting discrete operating system components. The Company expects that this will enable introduce some new functionality for the current operating system sooner than would able introduce completely new operating system. Concurrently, the Company will continue development its next-generation operating system, focusing increased functionality the possible expense some backward compatibility. Diminished backward compatibility its new operating system could result loss existing customers. Inability introduce next- generation operating system timely basis, gain developer support and market accepatance for , may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. part its efforts increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform, the Company announced the licensing the Mac other personal computer vendors January , well additional licensing initiative . Several vendors currently sell products that utilize the Macintosh operating system. The Company believes that licensing the operating system will result broader installed base which software vendors can develop and provide technical innovations for the Macintosh platform. However, there can assurance that the installed base will broadened the licensing the operating system that licensing will result increase the number application software titles the rate which vendors will bring market application software based the Mac . addition, result licensing its operating system, the Company forced compete with other companies producing Mac -based computer systems. The benefits the Company from licensing the Mac third parties may more than offset the disadvantages being required compete with them. supplemental means addressing the competition from -DOS and Windows, the Company has devoted substantial resources toward developing personal computer products capable running application software designed for the -DOS Windows operating systems ("Cross-Platform Products"). These products include the RISC-based PowerPC(trademark) microprocessor and either include the Pentium -class microprocessor can accommodate add- card containing Pentium -class microprocessor. These products enable users run concurrently applications that require the Mac , -DOS, Windows , Windows operating systems. Depending customer demand, the Company may supply customers who purchase Cross-Platform Products with Windows operating system software under licensing agreements with Microsoft. However, order , the Company will need enter into one more agreements with certain Microsoft distributors. The Company, International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") and Motorola, Inc. have agreed upon and announced the availability specifications for PowerPC microprocessor-based hardware reference platform. These specifications define "unified" personal computer architecture that gives access both the Power Macintosh platform and the environment. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected its ability continue implement this agreement and manage the risk associated with the transition this new hardware reference platform. Decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed -DOS Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company believes that the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger -DOS and Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' recent financial losses and declining demand for the Company\' product have caused software developers question the Company\' position the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger -DOS and Windows market. Microsoft Corporation important developer application software for the Company\' products. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Company\' products may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating systems. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability IBM and Motorola, Inc., the suppliers the PowerPC RISC microprocessor for certain the Company\' products, supply the Company adequate numbers microprocessors that produce superior price performance results compared with those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, the developer and producer the microprocessors used most personal computers using the - DOS and Windows operating systems. IBM produces personal computers based Intel microprocessors well workstations based the PowerPC microprocessor, and also the developer , competing operating system the Company\' Mac . Accordingly, IBM\' interest supplying the Company with microprocessors for the Company\' products may influenced IBM\' perception its interests competing manufacturer personal computers and competing operating system vendor. Several competitors the Company, including Compaq, IBM, and Microsoft, have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including education and publishing. Many these companies have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources than the Company. The Company integrating Internet capabilities into its new and existing hardware and software platforms. There can assurance that the Company will able continue successfully. addition, the Internet market rapidly evolving and characterized increasing number market entrants who have introduced developed products addressing access , authoring for, communication over, the Internet. Many these competitors have significant lead over the Company developing products for the Internet, have significantly greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources than the Company, both. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability successfully expand and capitalize its investments other markets, such the markets for MessagePad (registered trademark) and related products. Global Market Risks large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operations and financial results could significantly affected international factors, such changes foreign currency exchange rates weak economic conditions the foreign markets which the Company distributes its products. When the . dollar strengthens against other currencies, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales decreases. When the . dollar weakens, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales increases. Correspondingly, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based costs increases when the . dollar weakens and decreases when the . dollar strengthens. Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' consolidated sales and gross margins ( expressed . dollars). mitigate the short-term impact fluctuating currency exchange rates the Company\' non- . dollar-based sales, product procurement, and operating expenses, the Company regularly hedges its non- . dollar- based exposures. Specifically, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts hedge firmly committed transactions. Currently, hedges firmly committed transactions not extend beyond one year. The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge certain other probable but not firmly committed transactions. Hedges probable but not firmly committed transactions currently not extend beyond one year. reduce the costs associated with these ongoing foreign exchange hedging programs, the Company also regularly sells foreign exchange option contracts and enters into certain other foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange forward and option contracts not accounted for hedges, including all transactions intended reduce the costs associated with the Company\' foreign exchange hedging programs, are carried fair value and are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. While the Company exposed with respect fluctuations the interest rates many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well interest paid its notes payable banks and long-term debt. mitigate the impact fluctuations . interest rates, the Company has entered into interest rate swap, collar, and floor transactions. Certain these transactions are intended better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt. The Company also enters into these transactions order diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. These instruments may extend the Company\' cash investment horizon maximum duration three years. ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap, option and floor positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency- and interest rate-related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities, there can assurance that the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company generally does not engage leveraged hedging. The Company\' current financial condition may have impact the costs its hedging transactions, well the willingness its financial counter-parties enter into hedging transactions with the Company. Inventory and Supply line with the Company\' efforts redesign its business model, the Company taking steps streamline its product portfolios its key usage areas education, business, and the home. This planned simplification product lines has resulted inventory reserves. Cancelation fees related custom component inventory purchased for anticipated product introductions that have been canceled have also been paid accrued. The Company has also separately provided for the estimated cost correct certain quality problems certain entry-level, Performa, PowerBook, and peripheral products. Although the Company believes its inventory and related reserves are adequate, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory well advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk that the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce excess insufficient inventories particular products. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Certain the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers, either pursuant design specifications the Company otherwise. result the Company\' restructuring actions, which include the sale the Company\' Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI") and related manufacturing outsourcing agreement with SCI, the proportion the Company\' products produced and distributed under outsourcing arrangements will increase. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they will also reduce the direct control the Company has over production. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Furthermore, any efforts the Company manage its inventory under outsourcing arrangements could subject the Company liquidated damages cancelation the arrangement. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company remains least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service. Accordingly, the event product defects warranty liability, the Company may remain primarily liable. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. The Company\' ability satisfy demand for its products may limited the availability key components. The Company has experienced some limitations supply certain microprocessors the first quarter . The Company believes that the availability from suppliers the personal computer industry microprocessors and ASICs presents the most significant potential for constraining the Company\' ability produce products. Specific microprocessors manufactured IBM and Motorola, Inc. are currently available only from single sources, while some advanced microprocessors are currently the early stages ramp- for production and thus have limited availability. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for other semiconductor products with other industries that have experienced increased demand for such products, due either increased consumer demand increased use semiconductors their products (such the cellular phone and automotive industries). Finally, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry (including certain microprocessors and ASICs). Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Such product supply constraints and corresponding increased costs could decrease the Company\' net sales and adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial condition. Marketing and Distribution number uncertainties may affect the marketing and distribution the Company\' products. Currently, the Company\' primary means distribution through third-party computer resellers. Such resellers include consumer channels such mass-merchandise stores, consumer electronics outlets, and computer superstores. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakened resellers within consumer channels were decide not continue distribute the Company\' products. Uncertainty over demand for the Company\' products may cause resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. Under the Company\' arrangements with its resellers, resellers have the option reduce eliminate unfilled orders previously placed, most instances without financial penalty. Resellers also have the option return products the Company without penalty within certain limits, beyond which they may assessed fees. The Company has recently experienced reduction ordering from historical levels resellers due uncertainty concerning the Company\' condition and prospects. Other Factors The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including certain major vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations which include, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and leave responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. unclear what effect such regulation will have the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. The Company currently the process replacing its existing transaction systems (which include order management, product procurement, distribution, and finance) with single integrated system part its ongoing effort increase operational efficiency. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected the Company unable implement and effectively manage the transition this new integrated system. part the Company\' restructuring plan, the Company sold its Napa, California, data center MCI Systemhouse ("MCI"), and entered into data processing outsourcing agreement with MCI. While this outsourcing agreement may lower the Company\' fixed costs operations, will also reduce the direct control the Company has over its data processing. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the Company\' data processing. Because the foregoing factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. addition, the Company\' participation highly dynamic industry often results significant volatility the Company\' common stock price. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company\' financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, net notes payable banks, increased $ , million September , , from $ million September , . The Company\' financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased $ , million September , , from $ million September , . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balance September , , includes $ million pledged collateral support letters credit primarily associated with the Company\' purchase commitments under the terms the sale the Company\' Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI. The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balance September , , includes $ million pledged collateral support notes payable banks. Cash generated operations during totaled $ million. Cash generated operations was primarily the result decreases inventories and accounts receivable, partially offset decreases accounts payable and deferred tax liabilities. part the Company\' restructuring plan and order meet certain liquidity requirements during , the Company generated $ million cash from the sale certain equity investments, and the sale the Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI and the Napa, California, data center MCI. The Company expects that cash generated from the sale equity investments and property, plant and equipment will significantly less compared with . Net cash used for the purchase property, plant, and equipment totaled $ million , and consisted primarily increases manufacturing machinery and equipment. The Company expects that the level capital expenditures will comparable . Notes payable banks September , , were approximately $ million lower than September , . During , outstanding loan Apple Computer ., subsidiary the Company, was repaid full. September , , Apple Japan, Inc., subsidiary the Company, held $ million notes payable several banks, with maturity dates ranging from the end December May . The majority these loans are guaranteed the Company. The Company\' balance long-term debt increased during due the issuance $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes certain qualified parties private placement. These notes were sold % par. These notes pay interest semi-annually and mature June , . The remainder long-term borrowings consists $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes issued under omnibus shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission . The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . For more information regarding the Company\' long-term debt, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. The Internal Revenue Service has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies for the years through , and most the issues dispute for these years have been resolved. June , , the IRS issued notice deficiency proposing increases the amount the Company\' federal income taxes for the years through . The Company has filed petition with the United States Tax Court contest these alleged tax deficiencies. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from these tax examinations. The Company\' cost funds has increased result the downgrading from January through May its short-term debt and Moody\' Investor Services and Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency, respectively, and its long-term debt and + Moody\' Investor Services and Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency, respectively. addition, the Company may required pledge additional collateral with respect certain its borrowings and letters credit and agree more stringent covenants than the past. The Company believes that its balances cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with continued short-term borrowings from banks, will sufficient meet its operating and other cash requirements, including the impact planned restructuring actions, short- and long-term basis. assurance can given that short-term borrowings from banks can continued, that any additional required financing could obtained should the restructuring plan take longer implement than anticipated unsuccessful. the Company unable obtain such financing, its liquidity, results operations, and financial condition could materially adversely affected. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets September , , and September , Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Financial Statement Schedule: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule - Valuation and qualifying accounts - All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Shareholders and Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , . Our audits also include the financial statement schedule listed the Index the Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, present fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars millions) September , , and September , Assets: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ Short-term investments Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ ($ ) , , Inventories: Purchased parts Work process Finished goods , Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment: Land and buildings Machinery and equipment Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment Other assets $ , $ , Liabilities and Shareholders\' Equity: Current liabilities: Notes payable banks $ $ Accounts payable , Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued marketing and distribution Accrued warranty and related Accrued restructuring costs -- Other current liabilities Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt Deferred tax liabilities Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , shares issued and outstanding ( , , shares ) Retained earnings , , Other ( ) Total shareholders\' equity , , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Operations (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost sales , , , Research and development Selling, general and administrative , , , Restructuring costs ( ) ( ) , , , Operating income (loss) ( , ) Interest and other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes ( , ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes ( ) Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share $( ) $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings(loss) per share ( thousands) , , , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Common Stock Total Shares Retained Shareholders\' ( thousands) Amount Earnings Other Equity Balance September , , $ $ , $( ) $ , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- Net income -- -- -- Balance September , , , ( ) , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- Change unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities -- -- -- Net income -- -- -- Other -- -- -- Balance September , , , , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Net loss -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Balance September , , $ $ , $( ) $ , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows (Dollars millions) Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the period $ $ , $ Operating: Net income (loss) ( ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) cash generated (used for) operations: Depreciation and amortization Net book value property, plant, and equipment retirements Changes assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) Inventories , ( ) Deferred tax assets ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) Accounts payable ( ) Accrued restructuring costs ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities ( ) Deferred tax liabilities ( ) Cash generated (used for) operating activities ( ) Investing: Purchase short-term investments ( ) ( , ) ( ) Proceeds from sale short-term investments , Purchase property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used for investing activities ( ) ( ) ( ) Financing: Increase (decrease) notes payable banks ( ) ( ) Increase (decrease) long-term borrowings ( ) Increases common stock, net related tax benefits Cash dividends ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash generated (used for) financing activities ( ) Total cash generated (used) ( ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the period $ , $ $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for: Interest $ $ $ Income taxes, net $ $ $ Noncash transaction: tax benefit from stock options $ $ $ See accompanying notes. Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Nature Operations Apple Computer (the "Company") designs, manufactures, and markets microprocessor-based personal computers and related personal computing products for sale primarily education, home, business, and government customers. Basis Presentation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company\' fiscal year-end the last Friday September. Accounting Estimates General The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Significant Accounting Estimates Reserves Against Inventories The Company\' reserves against inventories are based the Company\' best estimates product sales prices and customer demand patterns, and its plans transition its products. However, the Company participates highly competitive industry that characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressures gross margins, frequent introductions new products, short product life cycles, rapid technological advances, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, and price sensitivity and changing demand patterns the part consumers. result the industry\' ever-changing and dynamic nature, least reasonably possible that the estimates used the Company determine its reserves against inventories will materially different from the actual amounts results. These differences could result materially higher than expected inventory reserve costs, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\' results operations and financial condition the near term. Warranty and Related Accruals The Company\' warranty and related accruals are based the Company\' best estimates product failure rates and unit costs repair. However, the Company continually releasing new and ever-more complex and technologically advanced products. result, least reasonably possible that product could released with certain unknown quality and design problems. Such occurrence could result materially higher than expected warranty and related costs, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\' results operations and financial condition the near term. Deferred Tax Assets Realization approximately $ million the total deferred tax assets dependent the Company\' ability generate approximately $ million future . taxable income. Management believes that more likely than not that the asset will realized based forecasted . income. However, there can assurance that the Company will meet its expectations future . income. result, the amount the deferred tax assets considered realizable could reduced the near and long term estimates future taxable . income are reduced. Such occurrence could materially adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for valuation allowance. Summary Significant Accounting Policies Financial Instruments Investments All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short- term investments. There are investments with maturities greater than twelve months. The Company\' cash equivalents consist primarily . Government securities, Euro-dollar deposits, and commercial paper. Short-term investments consist principally Euro-dollar deposits and commercial paper. The Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments are generally held until maturity. The Company\' marketable equity securities consist securities issued . corporations and are included "Other assets" the accompanying balance sheets. Management determines the appropriate classification its debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. These unrealized gains losses include any unrealized losses and gains interest rate contracts accounted for hedges against the available-for-sale securities. Equity securities that are not considered marketable defined are carried cost. Realized gains and losses the sale securities are included interest and other income (expense), net. The cost securities sold based the specific identification method. Financial Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet Risk the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off- balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. The Company does not hold transact financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are recorded currently income shareholder\' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred until the occurrence the hedged transactions. Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange contracts that not qualify accounting hedges are recorded currently income. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Interest Rate Derivatives The Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. addition, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts hedge certain intercompany loan transactions. These forward contracts effectively change certain foreign currency denominated debt into . dollar denominated debt, which better matches against the Company\' . dollar denominated cash equivalents and short-term investments. Foreign Currency Instruments The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with certain firmly committed and certain other probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company\' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal . dollar value terms their historically high correlation with the . dollar. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products currencies other than the . dollar. majority these non- . dollar-based sales are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge certain other probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase foreign exchange option contracts used hedge both firmly committed and certain other probable but not firmly committed transactions. addition, the Company enters into other foreign exchange transactions, which are intended reduce the costs associated with its foreign exchange risk management programs. The duration foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions for probable but not firmly committed transactions, currently does not exceed one year. For further information regarding the Company\' accounting treatment its financial instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment stated cost. Depreciation and amortization computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets. Long-Lived Assets Effective September , , the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standard . ("FAS "), "Accounting for the Impairment Long- Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed ." accordance with FAS , prior period financial statements have not been restated reflect this change accounting principle and the cumulative effect this change was not material. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has not elected early adoption Financial Accounting Standard . ("FAS "), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." FAS becomes effective for the Company , and will have impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition the Company has elected continue measuring compensation expense for its stock-based employee compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed APB Opinion . , "Accounting for Stock Issued Employees." However, the Company will provide pro forma disclosures net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method prescribed FAS had been applied measuring compensation expense. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its foreign sales subsidiaries year-end exchange rates. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged "accumulated translation adjustment" included shareholders\' equity. The foreign manufacturing and certain other entities use the . dollar the functional currency and translate monetary assets and liabilities year-end exchange rates, and inventories, property, and non-monetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations are included the results operations and are immaterial. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue the time products are shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns and price protection that may occur under Company programs. Historically, actual amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied significantly from estimated amounts. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are charged expense the first time the advertising takes place. Earnings (Loss) per Share Earnings (loss) per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding and ( and only) the dilutive effect common stock options using the treasury stock method. Common stock options, the convertible subordinated notes, and certain common shares issued pending shareholder approval were not included the computation loss per share their effect was antidilutive. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts the Industry Segment and Geographic Information footnote have been reclassified conform the current year\' presentation. Financial Instruments Investments The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities September , : ( millions) Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value . Treasury securities and obligations . government agencies $ $ -- $ -- $ . corporate debt securities -- -- Foreign government securities , -- -- , Total included cash and cash equivalents $ , $ -- $ -- $ , . corporate debt securities $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Foreign government securities -- -- Total included short-term investments $ $ -- $ -- $ Equity securities $ -- $ $ -- $ Total included other assets $ -- $ $ -- $ Total $ , $ $ -- $ , The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities September , : ( millions) Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value . Treasury securities and obligations . government agencies $ $ -- $ -- $ . corporate debt securities -- -- Foreign government securities -- Total included cash and cash equivalents $ $ $ -- $ . corporate debt securities $ $ -- $ -- $ Foreign government securities -- -- Total included short-term investments$ $ -- $ -- $ Equity securities $ $ $ -- $ Total included other assets $ $ $ -- $ Total $ , $ $ -- $ , The gross realized gains recorded earnings sales available-for-sale securities, well the related cash proceeds from those sales, were $ million and $ million and , respectively. There were gross realized losses recorded earnings sales available-for-sale securities . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balance September , , includes $ million pledged primarily collateral support letters credit, and September , , includes $ million pledged collateral support notes payable banks. Interest Rate Derivatives and Foreign Currency Instruments The table page shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , , and September , . The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table below represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table below reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. ( millions) Credit Credit Notional Fair Risk Notional Fair Risk Principal Value Amount Principal Value Amount Transactions Qualifying Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps $ $ ( ) $ -- $ $ ( ) $ Interest rate collars $ $ -- $ -- $ $ -- $ -- Purchased floors $ $ $ $ -- $ -- $ -- Sold options $ -- $ -- $ -- $ $ -- $ -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Transactions Other Than Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps $ -- $ -- $ -- $ $ -- $ -- Sold options $ -- $ -- $ -- $ $ ( ) $ -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts $ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Purchased options $ $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options $ $ ( ) $ -- $ , $ ( ) $ -- The interest rate swaps generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. result, these swaps effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate ten-year debt floating-rate debt and generally qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Maturity dates for these swaps currently range from one seven years. September , , and September , , interest rate swaps classified receive-fixed swaps had weighted average receive rates % and %, respectively. Weighted average pay rates these swaps were % and % September , , and September , , respectively. The unrealized gains and losses these swaps are generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. Interest rate collars limit the Company\' exposure fluctuations short- term interest rates locking range interest rates. interest rate collar -cost structure that consists purchased option and sold option. The Company receives payment when the three-month LIBOR falls below predetermined levels, and makes payment when the three- month LIBOR rises above predetermined levels. The entire structure generally qualifies accounting hedge. Purchased floors limit the Company\' exposure falling interest rates its cash equivalents and short-term investments locking minimum interest rate. The Company receives payment when interest rates fall below predetermined level. purchased floor generally qualifies for hedge accounting treatment and reported the balance sheet its premium cost, which amortized over the life the floor. The interest rate collars and purchased floors are generally designated and effective hedges against interest rate risk the Company\' debt securities classified available-for-sale and are carried fair value adjustment the basis the underlying security. The related unrealized gains and losses,net taxes, are reported component shareholders\' equity and are recognized income the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , , and September , . Interest rate option contracts require the Company make payments should certain interest rates either fall below rise above predetermined levels. These contracts are generally not accounted for hedges and are carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are also carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. All foreign exchange forward contracts expire within one year. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts that are designated and effective hedges are amortized over the life the option. the option contract designated and effective hedge firmly committed transaction, probable but not firmly committed transaction, then any gain loss deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , , and September , . the option contract used hedge asset liability, then the hedge carried fair value with gains losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses gains the hedged transaction. September , , maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts ranged from one twelve months. The purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. September , , maturity dates for sold option contracts ranged from one six months. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Notes Payable Banks The weighted average interest rates for Japanese yen-denominated notes payable banks September , , and September , , were approximately % and %, respectively. The Company had . dollar-denominated notes payable banks September , . The weighted average interest rate for . dollar-denominated notes payable banks September , , was approximately %. The carrying amount notes payable banks approximates their fair value due their short-term maturities. Long-Term Debt During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the "Notes") certain qualified parties private placement. The Notes were sold % par. The Notes pay interest semi-annually and mature June , . The Notes are convertible their holders any time after September , conversion price $ per share subject adjustments defined the Note agreement. The Notes are redeemable the Company % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve-month period beginning June , , and % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve-month period beginning June , . The Notes are subordinated all present and future senior indebtedness the Company defined the Note agreement. addition, the Company incurred approximately $ million costs associated with the issuance the Notes. These costs are accounted for deduction from the face amount the Notes and are being amortized over the life the Notes. October , the Company registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission $ million the aggregate principal amount the Notes, including the related common shares issuable upon conversion these Notes. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . The carrying amounts and estimated fair values the Company\' long- term debt are follows: ( millions) Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Amount Value Amount Value Ten-year unsecured notes $ $ $ $ Convertible subordinated notes ( ) $ $ $ -- $ -- Other $ $ $ $ ( ) The carrying amount the convertible subordinated note prior consideration the related issuance costs. The fair value the ten-year unsecured notes based their listed market value September , . The fair value the convertible subordinated notes based estimates from several financial institutions. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, consists the following: ( millions) Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss) ( ) Net premiums and discounts earned (paid) foreign exchange instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Realized gains the sale available-for-sale and other securities -- Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) -- $ $( ) $( ) Concentrations Risk Concentrations Credit Risk The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and various education and consumer channels. Concentrations credit risk with respect trade receivables are limited because flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and because the Company\' customer base consists large numbers geographically diverse customers dispersed across several industries. such, the Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe that there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the number agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' ten-year unsecured notes. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. Margining under these agreements does not start until . Furthermore, these agreements would require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds were exceeded. Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, "ASICs") are currently obtained the Company from single sources. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed, the Company\' ability ship the related product utilizing such component desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portion the Company\' CPUs and logic boards are now manufactured SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI"). Although the Company works closely with SCI manufacturing schedules and levels, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected SCI were unable meet its production obligations. Significant Customers customer accounted for more than % the Company\' net sales , , . Advertising Costs Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Restructuring Operations the second quarter , the Company announced and began implement restructuring plan aimed reducing costs and restoring profitability the Company\' operations. The restructuring plan was necessitated decreased demand for Company products and the Company\' adoption new strategic direction. The Company\' restructuring actions consist primarily terminating approximately , full-time employees (down from initial planned termination approximately , ), approximately whom have been terminated through September , , excluding employees who were hired SCI Systems, Inc. and MCI Systemhouse, the purchasers the Company\' Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility and the Napa, California, data center facility, respectively);canceling vacating certain facility leases result these employee terminations; writing down certain land, buildings and equipment sold result downsizing operations and outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling contracts result terminating eWorld, Apple\' -line service. These actions resulted initial charge $ million. The charge was adjusted downward $ million the fourth quarter , primarily result greater than expected voluntary terminations, which led fewer than planned involuntary terminations, well lower than expected costs cancel vacate certain facility leases, partially offset greater than expected costs cancel certain contracts and write down certain operating assets sold sold. The restructuring actions have resulted cash expenditures $ million and noncash asset write-downs $ million through September , . The Company expects that the remaining $ million accrued balance September , , will result cash expenditures approximately $ million over the next twelve months and approximately $ million thereafter. The Company expects that most the contemplated restructuring actions will completed within the next six months and will financed through current working capital and continued short-term borrowings. The following table depicts the restructuring activity through September , : ( millions) Total Adjustments: Balance Restructuring Increase/ September , Category Charge Spending (Decrease) Payments employees involuntarily terminated ( ) $ $( ) $( ) $ Payments canceled vacated facility leases ( ) ( ) ( ) Write-down operating assets sold ( ) ( ) Payments canceled contracts ( ) ( ) $ $( ) $( ) $ ( ): Cash; ( ): Noncash. the third quarter , the Company initiated plan restructure its operations worldwide order address the competitive conditions the personal computer industry. connection with this plan, the Company recorded $ million charge operating expenses. and , the Company lowered its estimate the total costs associated with this restructuring and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million and $ million, respectively. These adjustments primarily reflected the modification cancelation certain elements the Company\' original restructuring plan because changing business and economic conditions that made certain elements the restructuring plan financially less attractive than originally anticipated. addition, some actions were completed lower cost than originally estimated. Income Taxes The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists the following: ( millions) Federal: Current $( ) $ $ Deferred ( ) ( ) State: Current ( ) Deferred ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current ( ) Deferred ( ) ( ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $( ) $ $ The foreign provision (benefit) for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings (loss) approximately $( ) million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Except for such indefinitely reinvested earnings, the Company provides for federal and state income taxes currently undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were: ( millions) September , September , Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves Basis capital assets and investments Tax losses and credits -- Total deferred tax assets Less: Valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Other Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset (liability) $ $( ) September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire principally . Substantially all the remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. The net change the total valuation allowance was negligible and increase $ million . reconciliation the provision (benefit) for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes, follows: ( millions) Computed expected tax $( ) $ $ State taxes, net federal benefit ( ) Research and development tax credit -- ( ) ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries -- ( ) ( ) Valuation allowance -- Other individually immaterial items Provision (benefit) for income taxes $( ) $ $ Effective tax rate % % % The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies for the years through , and most the issues dispute for these years have been resolved. June , , the IRS issued notice deficiency proposing increases the amount the Company\' federal income taxes for the years through . The Company has filed petition with the United States Tax Court contest these alleged tax deficiencies. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from these tax examinations. Common Stock Shareholder Rights Plan May , the Company adopted shareholder rights plan and distributed dividend one right purchase one share common stock ( "Right") for each outstanding share common stock the Company. The Rights become exercisable certain limited circumstances involving potential business combination transaction the Company and are initially exercisable price $ per share. Following certain other events after the Rights have become exercisable, each Right entitles its holder purchase for $ amount common stock the Company, , certain circumstances, securities the acquiror, having then- current market value two times the exercise price the Right. The Rights are redeemable and may amended the Company\' option before they become exercisable. Until Right exercised, the holder Right, such, has rights shareholder the Company. The Rights expire April , . Stock Option Plans The Company has effect Stock Option Plan (the " Plan"). The Stock Option Plan terminated October and the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan (the " Plan") terminated July . Options granted before those plan termination dates remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan employees, including officers and directors who are employees, not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period three years, based continued employment, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and stock appreciation rights. December , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . July , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million. December , the Board Directors adopted new amendment reduce this increase million shares. This new amendment was approved the Company\' shareholders January . Also July , the Board Directors resolved terminate the Plan and transfer all unused shares remaining under the Plan the Plan. This resolution was approved the Company\' shareholders January . March , the Board Directors approved the issuance options purchase million shares common stock the Chief Executive Officer the Company, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . These options will have exercise price $ per share and will become exercisable over five years. the issuance these options pending shareholder approval, they are not included outstanding the table below. May , , the Board Directors adopted resolution allowing employees and including the level Vice President exchange options their existing option price for new options having exercise price $ per share, the fair market value the Company\' common stock May , . Options received under this program are subject one year additional vesting such that the new vesting date for each vesting portion will the later May , , and the original vesting date plus one year. Approximately million options were exchanged under this program. Summarized information regarding the Company\' stock option plans September , , follows: ( thousands, except per share amounts) Number Shares Price per Share Outstanding September , , $ - $ Granted , Exercised ( ) $ - $ Expired canceled ( , ) Outstanding September , , $ - $ Exercisable , Reserved for issuance , Available for future grant , Restricted Stock Plan April , , the Company\' Board Directors approved Restricted Stock Plan for officers the Company (the "RSP"), which became effective July , . The RSP was subsequently ratified the shareholders January , . The RSP designed provide incentive for officers continue own shares the Company\' common stock acquired upon exercise options under any the Company\' stock option plans, thus more closely aligning officers\' financial interests with those the shareholders. The RSP provides that officers who exercise stock options and continue hold the exercised shares for least three years will receive three awards shares restricted stock. Each such award for one-third the number shares held for the requisite retention period. Each restricted stock award granted pursuant the plan becomes fully vested three years after the grant date, provided that the officer maintains continuous employment with the Company and that other vesting requirements are met. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the "Purchase Plan") under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end the offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. September , , approximately , shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. December , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Purchase Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . July , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Purchase Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million. December , the Board Directors adopted new amendment reduce this increase million shares. This new amendment was approved the Company\' shareholders January . Chief Executive Officer Performance Shares February , the Board Directors approved the issuance million shares common stock (the "Performance Shares") the Chief Executive Officer the Company, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . The Company may issue , Performance Shares for each full fiscal year during the five-year term the Chief Executive Officer\' employment agreement, which began February , . For each partial fiscal year during the term this agreement, the number shares that may issued shall prorated reflect that partial year. The issuance the Performance Shares subject the achievement certain performance goals established the Board Directors the beginning the employment agreement and the beginning each subsequent fiscal year during the term the employment agreement. these Performance Shares are pending shareholder approval, they are not included outstanding the accompanying balance sheet. However, the related estimated compensation expense included the results operations and immaterial. The Performance Shares for years after will become part the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan (refer discussion below) upon approval the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan the Company\' shareholders the Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan December , the Company\' Board Directors approved Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan (the "Performance Share Plan") for which officers the Company the level Senior Vice President and above, and other key employees recommended management and designated the Compensation Committee the Board, will eligible. The Performance Share Plan provides for grant shares each eligible participant, with annual vesting conditioned the achievement performance goals established advance the Compensation Committee and subject such other terms may determined the Committee. The Performance Share Plan intended provide incentive for superior performance, promote the maintenance substantial stock ownership levels officers the Corporation, and enable the Corporation attract and retain highly qualified executive officers. The Company\' Board Directors has reserved million shares for issuance under the provisions the Performance Share Plan. The Performance Share Plan subject shareholder approval the Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . Stock Repurchase Programs November , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. Approximately million shares remain authorized for repurchase. shares were repurchased under this authorization , , . Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the "Savings Plan") that qualifies deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pretax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). Effective October , , the Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. Prior October , , the Company matched % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms five ten years and generally provide renewal options for terms five additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under these noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows: ( millions) $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ Purchase Commitment connection with the sale its Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI"), the Company obligated purchase certain percentages its total annual volumes CPUs and logic boards from SCI over each the next three years. The Company has met these obligations through September , , and believes will meet them the future. Litigation Abraham and Evelyn Kostick Trust . Peter Crisp . January , purported shareholder class action was filed the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming the Company and its directors defendants. The complaint sought injunctive relief and damages and alleged that acts mismanagement resulted depressed price for the Company. February , the complaint was amended add former director defendant and add purported class and derivative claims based theories such breach fiduciary duty, misrepresentation, and insider trading. July , the Court sustained defendants\' demurrer and dismissed the amended complaint variety grounds and granted plaintiffs leave amend the complaint. October , the plaintiffs filed second amended complaint naming the Company\' directors and certain former directors defendants and again alleging purported class and derivative claims, seeking injunctive relief and damages (compensatory and punitive) based theories such breach fiduciary duty, misrepresentation, and insider trading. November , the Company filed demurrer seeking dismissal the second amended complaint. Derek Pritchard . Michael Spindler . March , purported shareholder class action was filed the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming certain current and former directors the Company defendants. The complaint sought damages and alleged that the defendants breached their fiduciary duty allegedly rejecting offer from computer company (not named the complaint) acquire the Company price excess $ per share. August , the Court sustained defendants\' demurrer and dismissed the complaint variety grounds, and granted plaintiff leave amend the complaint. October , the plaintiff filed his first amended complaint which asserted the same purported cause action the original complaint, alleged additional facts purportedly support thereof, and added the Company defendant. The Company intends file demurrer seeking dismissal the first amended complaint. Men\' Clothing Defined Benefit Pension Fund . Michael Spindler . May , action was filed the California Superior Court for Alameda County naming defendants the Company and certain its current and former officers and directors. The complaint seeks compensatory and punitive damages and generally alleges that the defendants misrepresented omitted material facts about the Company\' operations and financial results, which plaintiff contends artificially inflated the price the Company\' stock. The case has been transferred the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County. None the defendants has yet responded the complaint. "Repetitive Stress Injury" Litigation The Company named numerous lawsuits (fewer than ) alleging that the plaintiff incurred -called "repetitive stress injury" the upper extremities result using keyboards and mouse input devices sold the Company. October , , trial one these cases (Dorsey . Apple) the United States District Court for the Eastern District New York, the jury rendered verdict favor the Company, and final judgement favor the Company has been entered. The other cases are various stages pretrial activity. These suits are similar those filed against other major suppliers personal computers. Ultimate resolution the litigation against the Company may depend progress resolving this type litigation the industry overall. Monitor-Size Litigation August , the Company was named, along with other entities, including computer manufacturers and computer monitor vendors, putative nationwide class action filed the California Superior Court for Orange County, styled Keith Long . . AAmazing Technologies Corp. . The complaint alleges that each the defendants engaged false misleading advertising with respect the size computer monitor screens. Also August , the Company was named the sole defendant purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Camden County, entitled Mahendri Shah . Apple Computer, Inc. Subsequently, November , the Company, along with other entities, was named purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Essex County, entitled Maizes & Maizes . Apple Computer, Inc. . Similar putative class actions have been filed other California counties which the Company was not named defendant. The complaints all these cases seek restitution the form refunds product exchange, damages, punitive damages, and attorneys fees. December , the California Judicial Council ordered all the California actions, including Long, coordinated for purposes pretrial proceedings and trial before single judge, the Honorable William Cahill, sitting the County San Francisco. All the California actions were subsequently coordinated under the name Computer Monitor Litigation and master consolidated complaint filed superseding all the individual complaints those actions. July , , Judge Cahill ordered all the California cases dismissed without leave amend plaintiffs residing California the ground that stipulated judgment entered September prior action brought the California Attorney General alleging the same cause action was res judicata the plaintiffs the consolidated California class action suits. This order may subject appellate review later stage the proceedings. Both the New Jersey cases and the consolidated California cases are preliminary stage, with discovery having taken place. The Company has various claims, lawsuits, disputes with third parties, investigations, and pending actions involving allegations false misleading advertising, product defects, discrimination, infringement intellectual property rights, and breach contract and other matters against the Company and its subsidiaries incident the operation its business. The liability, any, associated with these matters not determinable. The Company believes the resolution the foregoing actions will not have material adverse effect its financial condition. However, depending the amount and timing any unfavorable resolution these lawsuits, possible that the Company\' results operations could materially affected particular period. Industry Segment and Geographic Information The Company operates one principal industry segment: the design, manufacture, and sale personal computing products. The Company\' products are sold primarily the business, education, home, and government markets. Geographic financial information follows: ( millions) Net sales unaffiliated customers: Americas $ , $ , $ , EMEA , , , Japan , , , Asia Pacific Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Transfers between geographic areas (eliminated consolidation): Americas $ $ $ EMEA Japan -- -- -- Asia Pacific , , , Total transfers $ , $ , $ , Operating income (loss): Americas $( , )$ ( ) $ ( ) EMEA ( ) Japan ( ) Asia Pacific Eliminations ( ) Corporate income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Income (loss) before income taxes $( , )$ $ Identifiable assets: Americas $ , $ , $ , EMEA Japan Asia Pacific Eliminations ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate assets , , Total assets $ , $ , $ , "Americas" comprises North and South America. "EMEA" abbreviation for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. "Asia Pacific" does not include Japan. Prior year amounts have been restated conform the current year\' presentation. "Net sales unaffiliated customers" based the location the customers. Transfers between geographic areas are recorded amounts generally above cost and accordance with the rules and regulations the respective governing tax authorities. Operating income (loss) geographic area consists total net sales less operating expenses, and does not include allocation general corporate expenses. The restructuring charges recorded , and the adjustments recorded and the restructuring charges recorded , are included the calculation operating income (loss) for each geographic area. Identifiable assets geographic areas are those assets used the Company\' operations each area. Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, equity securities, and joint venture investments. large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations, and majority the products sold internationally are manufactured the Company\' facilities Cork, Ireland; and Singapore. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ ( ) $ Net income(loss)$ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share $ $( ) $( ) $( ) Cash dividends declared per common share $ --- $ --- $ --- $ Price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ Price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ September , , there were , shareholders record. The Company began declaring quarterly cash dividends its common stock April . The dividend policy determined the Board Directors and dependent the Company\' earnings, capital requirements financial condition and other factors. The Company suspended paying dividends its common stock beginning the second quarter . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per common share represents the highest and lowest prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. Net income for the fourth quarter includes adjustment the restructuring charge that increased income $ million. Net loss for the second quarter includes $ million charge for the write-down certain inventory and related actions, well $ million restructuring charge. Net income for the third and first quarters includes adjustments the restructuring charge that increased income $ million and $ million, respectively. ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding directors the Registrant set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Company found under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant" Part hereof also incorporated reference into this Item . Item . Executive Compensation Information regarding executive compensation set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Change Control Arrangements", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation", and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation ", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", and "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", which information hereby incorporated reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedule The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - Current Reports Form - were filed Apple with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibits Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through November , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). - Form % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , ). Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . * Footnotes appear page . ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . 88K** Form Director Warrant. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through September , . ** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through September , . ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan ** Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective January , - ** Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ** Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ** Separation Agreement dated December , , between Registrant and Daniel Eilers. ** Separation Agreement dated October , , between Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. ** Letter Agreement dated May , , between Registrant and Jeanne Seeley. ** Separation Agreement effective March , , between Registrant and Michael . Spindler. ** Letter Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and James . Buckley. ** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Computation earnings (loss) per common share. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. * Footnotes appear page . NOTES 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . - - , - - , - , - - Incorporated reference exhibits , , , and , respectively, the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedule See Item ( )( ) this Form - . (Exhibit ) CONSENT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS consent the incorporation reference the Registration Statements (Form - Nos. - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - - , - , - , - , - , - , and - ) pertaining the and Stock Option Plans, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Key Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan, the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan, the Executive Restricted Stock Plan, and the Form Director Warrant Apple Computer, Inc. and Form - . - and Form - . - the related Prospectuses our report dated October , with respect the consolidated financial statements and schedule Apple Computer, Inc. included this Annual Report (Form - ) for the year ended September , . / / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California December , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (Registrant) : / Gilbert . Amelio GILBERT . AMELIO Chairman and Chief Executive Officer December , KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Gilbert . Amelio and George . Scalise, jointly and severally, his her attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him her any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: / / Gilbert . Amelio / / Fred . Anderson GILBERT . AMELIO FRED . ANDERSON Chairman and Executive Vice President, and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer (Principal Executive Officer), (Principal Financial Officer) and Director December , December , / / . . Markkula, . / / Delano . Lewis . . MARKKULA, . DELANO . LEWIS Director Director December , December , / / Bernard Goldstein / / Edgar . Woolard, . BERNARD GOLDSTEIN EDGAR . WOOLARD, . Director Director December , December , / / . Jurgen Hintz / / Gareth . . Chang . JURGEN HINTZ GARETH . . CHANG Director Director December , December , / / Katherine Hudson KATHERINE . HUDSON Director December , Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( millions) Charged Allowance for Beginning Costs and Ending Doubtful Accounts: Balance Expenses Deductions ( ) Balance Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . ( ) Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . ( ) -Laws the Company, amended through April , . ( ) Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. ( ) Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . ( ) Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). ( ) Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . ( ) Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. ( ) Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , .). ( ) Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Form the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended. ( ) Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . ( ) Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . ( ) Form Director Warrant. Stock Option Plan, amended through September , . Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through September , . ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ( ) Executive Restricted Stock Plan. ( ) Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective January , . ( ) Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ( ) Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ( ) Separation Agreement dated December , , between Registrant and Daniel Eilers. ( ) Separation Agreement dated October , , between Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. ( ) Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ( ) Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ( ) Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ( ) Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ( ) Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ( ) Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ( ) Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ( ) Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ( ) Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. ( ) Letter Agreement dated May , , between Registrant and Jeanne Seeley. ( ) Separation Agreement effective March , , between Registrant and Michael . Spindler. ( ) Letter Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and James . Buckley. Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ( ) Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. ( ) Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. ( ) Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. ( ) Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. ( ) Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. ( ) Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Computation earnings (loss) per common share. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding directors the Registrant set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Company found under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant" Part hereof also incorporated reference into this Item . ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information regarding executive compensation set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Change Control Arrangements", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation", and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation ", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", and "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", which information hereby incorporated reference. PART ', 'item 14. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedule The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - Current Reports Form - were filed Apple with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibits Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through November , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). - Form % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , ). Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . * Footnotes appear page . ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . 88K** Form Director Warrant. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through September , . ** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through September , . ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan ** Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective January , - ** Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ** Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ** Separation Agreement dated December , , between Registrant and Daniel Eilers. ** Separation Agreement dated October , , between Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. ** Letter Agreement dated May , , between Registrant and Jeanne Seeley. ** Separation Agreement effective March , , between Registrant and Michael . Spindler. ** Letter Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and James . Buckley. ** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Computation earnings (loss) per common share. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. * Footnotes appear page . NOTES 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . - - , - - , - , - - Incorporated reference exhibits , , , and , respectively, the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedule See Item ( )( ) this Form - . (Exhibit ) CONSENT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS consent the incorporation reference the Registration Statements (Form - Nos. - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - - , - , - , - , - , - , and - ) pertaining the and Stock Option Plans, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Key Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan, the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan, the Executive Restricted Stock Plan, and the Form Director Warrant Apple Computer, Inc. and Form - . - and Form - . - the related Prospectuses our report dated October , with respect the consolidated financial statements and schedule Apple Computer, Inc. included this Annual Report (Form - ) for the year ended September , . / / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California December , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (Registrant) : / Gilbert . Amelio GILBERT . AMELIO Chairman and Chief Executive Officer December , KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Gilbert . Amelio and George . Scalise, jointly and severally, his her attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him her any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: / / Gilbert . Amelio / / Fred . Anderson GILBERT . AMELIO FRED . ANDERSON Chairman and Executive Vice President, and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer (Principal Executive Officer), (Principal Financial Officer) and Director December , December , / / . . Markkula, . / / Delano . Lewis . . MARKKULA, . DELANO . LEWIS Director Director December , December , / / Bernard Goldstein / / Edgar . Woolard, . BERNARD GOLDSTEIN EDGAR . WOOLARD, . Director Director December , December , / / . Jurgen Hintz / / Gareth . . Chang . JURGEN HINTZ GARETH . . CHANG Director Director December , December , / / Katherine Hudson KATHERINE . HUDSON Director December , Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( millions) Charged Allowance for Beginning Costs and Ending Doubtful Accounts: Balance Expenses Deductions ( ) Balance Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . ( ) Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . ( ) -Laws the Company, amended through April , . ( ) Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. ( ) Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . ( ) Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). ( ) Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . ( ) Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. ( ) Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , .). ( ) Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Form the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended. ( ) Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . ( ) Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . ( ) Form Director Warrant. Stock Option Plan, amended through September , . Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through September , . ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ( ) Executive Restricted Stock Plan. ( ) Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective January , . ( ) Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ( ) Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ( ) Separation Agreement dated December , , between Registrant and Daniel Eilers. ( ) Separation Agreement dated October , , between Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. ( ) Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ( ) Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ( ) Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ( ) Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ( ) Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ( ) Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ( ) Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ( ) Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ( ) Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. ( ) Letter Agreement dated May , , between Registrant and Jeanne Seeley. ( ) Separation Agreement effective March , , between Registrant and Michael . Spindler. ( ) Letter Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and James . Buckley. Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ( ) Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. ( ) Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. ( ) Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. ( ) Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. ( ) Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. ( ) Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Computation earnings (loss) per common share. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. ', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}