{'item 1. ': 'Business Overview Our mission give people the power build community and bring the world closer together. All our products, including our apps, share the vision helping bring the metaverse life. build technology that helps people connect and share, find communities, and grow businesses. Our products enable people connect and share with friends and family through mobile devices, personal computers, virtual reality ( ) and mixed reality ( ) headsets, and wearables. also help people discover and learn about what going the world around them, enable people share their experiences, ideas, photos and videos, and other activities with audiences ranging from their closest family members and friends the public large, and stay connected everywhere accessing our products. Meta moving our offerings beyond screens toward immersive experiences like augmented and virtual reality help build the metaverse, which believe the next evolution social technology. Our vision for the metaverse does not center any single product, but rather entire ecosystem experiences, devices, and new technologies. While the metaverse the very early stages its development, believe will become the next computing platform and the future social interaction. Across our work, are innovating artificial intelligence ( ) technologies build new experiences that help make our platform more social, useful, and immersive. report financial results for two segments: Family Apps (FoA) and Reality Labs ( ). Currently, generate substantially all our revenue from selling advertising placements our family apps marketers, which reflected FoA. Ads our platform enable marketers reach people across range marketing objectives, such generating leads driving awareness. Marketers purchase ads that can appear multiple places including Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, and third-party applications and websites. generates revenue from sales consumer hardware products, software, and content. invest our business based our company priorities. , intend focus six key investment areas: , the metaverse, our discovery engine, monetization our products and services, regulatory readiness, and enhancing developer efficiency build, iterate, and optimize products quickly. Our investments support initiatives across our products and services, helping power the systems that rank content our apps, our discovery engine that recommends relevant content, the tools advertisers use reach customers, the development new generative experiences, and the tools that make our product development more efficient and productive. The majority our investments are directed toward developing our family apps. , % our total costs and expenses were recognized FoA and % were recognized . Our FoA investments were $ billion and include expenses relating headcount, data centers and technical infrastructure part our efforts develop our apps and our advertising services. are also making significant investments our metaverse efforts, including developing virtual and augmented reality devices, software for social platforms, neural interfaces, and other foundational technologies. Our total investments were $ billion and include expenses relating headcount and technology development across these efforts. These are fundamentally new technologies that expect will evolve the metaverse ecosystem develops, and many products for the metaverse may only fully realized the next decade. Although inherently difficult predict when and how the metaverse ecosystem will develop, expect our segment continue operate loss for the foreseeable future, and our ability support our metaverse efforts dependent generating sufficient profits from other areas our business. expect this will complex, evolving, and long-term initiative. are investing now because believe this the next chapter the internet and will unlock monetization opportunities for businesses, developers, and creators, including around advertising, hardware, and digital goods. Family Apps Products • Facebook. Facebook helps give people the power build community and bring the world closer together. \' place for people share life\' moments and discuss what\' happening, nurture and build relationships, discover and connect interests, and create economic opportunity. They can this through Feed, Reels, Stories, Groups, Marketplace, and more. • Instagram. Instagram brings people closer the people and things they love. Instagram Feed, Stories, Reels, Live, and messaging are places where people and creators can connect and express themselves through photos, video, and private messaging, and discover and shop from their favorite businesses. • Messenger. Messenger simple yet powerful messaging application for people connect with friends, family, communities, and businesses across platforms and devices through text, audio, and video calls. • Threads. Threads application for text-based updates and public conversations, where communities come together discuss topics interest. People can connect directly with their favorite creators and others who love the same things build loyal following their own share their ideas, opinions, and creativity with the world. • WhatsApp. WhatsApp simple, reliable, and secure messaging application that used people and businesses around the world communicate and transact private way. Within WhatsApp launched WhatsApp Channels, one- -many broadcast service designed help people follow information from people and organizations that are important them. Reality Labs Products Many our metaverse investments are directed toward long-term, cutting-edge research and development for products that are not the market today and may only fully realized the next decade. This includes exploring new technologies such neural interfaces using electromyography, which lets people control their devices using neuromuscular signals, well innovations and hardware help build next-generation interfaces. the near term, are continuing develop early metaverse experiences through Reality Labs products that help people feel connected, anytime, anywhere. Our current product offerings include our Meta Quest devices, well software and content available through the Meta Quest Store, which enable range social experiences that allow people defy physical distance while engaging gaming, fitness, entertainment, and more. For example, Meta Horizon Worlds social platform where people can interact with friends, meet new people, play games, and attend virtual events. drive greater adoption and acceptance have also introduced capabilities, which allow users experience the immersion and presence while still being grounded the physical world, through our Meta Quest Pro and Meta Quest devices. have continued advance our augmented reality ( ) roadmap include offerings such the Ray-Ban Meta smart glasses, which feature Meta , our advanced conversational assistant, well offer the ability livestream video and let people stay more present through hands-free interaction. also offer Meta Spark, platform that allows creators and businesses build experiences that bring the digital and physical worlds together our apps. general, while all these investments are part our long-term initiative help build the metaverse, our and social platform efforts also include notable shorter-term projects developing specific products and services market, whereas our efforts are primarily directed toward longer-term research and development projects. For example, , expect spend approximately % our Reality Labs operating expenses our initiatives, approximately % our (including ) initiatives, and approximately % social platforms and other initiatives. apply significant judgment estimating this expense breakdown there are certain shared costs across product lines, and our expectations are subject change, including the metaverse ecosystem and our business strategies evolve. particular, regularly evaluate our product roadmaps and make significant changes our understanding the technological challenges and market landscape and our product ideas and designs evolve. Competition Our business characterized innovation, rapid change, and disruptive technologies. compete with companies providing connection, sharing, discovery, and communication products and services users online, well companies that sell advertising businesses looking reach consumers and develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. face significant competition every aspect our business, including, but not limited , companies that facilitate the ability users create, share, communicate, and discover content and information online enable marketers reach their existing prospective audiences. compete attract, engage, and retain people who use our products, attract and retain businesses that use our free paid business and advertising services, and attract and retain developers who build compelling applications that integrate with our products. also compete with companies that develop and deliver consumer hardware and virtual and augmented reality products and services. also expect face additional competition introduce acquire new products, our existing products evolve, other companies introduce new products and services, including part efforts develop the metaverse innovate through the development and application new technologies such . Technology Our product development philosophy centers continuous innovation creating and improving products that are social design, which means that our products are designed place people and their social interactions the core the product experience. our user base grows, engagement with products like video, , and increases, and deepen our investment new technologies, our computing needs continue expand. have designed and built our own data centers and key portions our technical infrastructure, and substantial portion our technical infrastructure also provided third parties. Our ability provide and continue innovate our products and services depends the continued availability components, power, and network capacity. make significant investments technology both improve our existing products and services and develop new ones, well for our marketers and developers. are also investing protecting the security, privacy, and integrity our platform investing both people and technology strengthen our systems against abuse. Across all these efforts, are making significant investments initiatives, including generative , , among other things, recommend relevant content across our products through our -powered discovery engine, enhance our advertising tools and improve our delivery, targeting, and measurement capabilities, and develop new products well new features for existing products. Sales and Operations The majority our marketers use our self-service platform launch and manage their advertising campaigns. also have global sales force that focused attracting and retaining advertisers and providing support them throughout the stages the marketing cycle from pre-purchase decision-making real-time optimizations post-campaign analytics. work directly with these advertisers, well through advertising agencies and resellers. operate offices approximately cities around the globe, the majority which have sales presence. also invest and rely self-service tools provide direct customer support our users and partners. For our products, our sales and operations efforts utilize third-party sales channels such retailers, resellers, and our direct- -consumer channel, Meta com. These efforts are focused driving consumer and enterprise sales and adoption our Meta Quest portfolio products and Ray-Ban Meta smart glasses. Marketing Historically, our communities have generally grown organically with people inviting their friends connect with them, supported internal efforts stimulate awareness and interest. addition, have invested and will continue invest marketing our products and services grow our brand and help build community around the world. Intellectual Property establish and protect our proprietary rights, rely combination patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, including know-how, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights. addition, further protect our proprietary rights, from time time have purchased patents and patent applications from third parties. not believe that our proprietary technology dependent any single patent copyright groups related patents copyrights. believe the duration our patents adequate relative the expected lives our products. Government Regulation are subject variety laws and regulations the United States and abroad that involve matters central our business, many which are still evolving and being tested courts, and could interpreted ways that could harm our business. These laws and regulations involve matters including privacy, data use, data protection and personal information, the provision our services younger users, biometrics, encryption, rights publicity, content, integrity, intellectual property, advertising, marketing, distribution, data security, data retention and deletion, data localization and storage, data disclosure, and machine learning, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection minors, consumer protection, civil rights, accessibility, telecommunications, product liability, -commerce, taxation, economic other trade controls including sanctions, anti-corruption and political law compliance, securities law compliance, and online payment services. Foreign data protection, privacy, content, competition, consumer protection, and other laws and regulations can impose different obligations more restrictive than those the United States, and create the potential for significant fines imposed. These . federal and state, , and other international laws and regulations, which some cases can enforced private parties addition government entities, are constantly evolving and can subject significant change. result, the application, interpretation, and enforcement these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly the new and rapidly evolving industry which operate, and may interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction jurisdiction and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. For example, regulatory legislative actions litigation concerning the manner which display content our users, moderate content, provide our services younger users, are able use data various ways, including for advertising, otherwise relating content that made available our products, could adversely affect our financial results, including imposing significant fines that increasingly may calculated based global revenue. the United States, , the . Supreme Court heard oral argument matter which the scope the protections available online platforms under Section the Communications Decency Act (Section ) was issue, but ultimately declined address Section its decision. addition, there have been, and continue , various efforts remove restrict the scope the protections available online platforms under Section , and any such changes may increase our costs require significant changes our products, business practices, operations, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. are also subject evolving laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances can transfer, process receive certain data that critical our operations, including data shared between countries regions which operate and data shared among our products and services. are unable transfer data between and among countries and regions which operate, are restricted from sharing data among our products and services, could affect our ability provide our services, the manner which provide our services our ability target ads, which could adversely affect our financial results. For example, the Privacy Shield, transfer framework relied upon for data transferred from the European Union the United States, was invalidated July the Court Justice the European Union (CJEU). addition, the other bases upon which Meta relies transfer such data, such Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs), have been subjected regulatory and judicial scrutiny. For example, although the CJEU upheld the validity SCCs basis transfer user data from the European Union the United States July , May , , the Irish Data Protection Committee (IDPC) issued Final Decision concluding that Meta Platforms Ireland\' reliance SCCs respect certain transfers European Economic Area (EEA) Facebook user data was not compliance with the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The IDPC issued administrative fine EUR € billion well corrective orders requiring Meta Platforms Ireland suspend the relevant transfers and bring its processing operations into compliance with Chapter GDPR ceasing the unlawful processing, including storage, such data the United States. are appealing this decision and the corrective orders are currently subject interim stay from the Irish High Court. Separately, March , , the European Union and United States announced that they had reached agreement principle new - . Data Privacy Framework ( - . DPF). October , , President Biden signed the Executive Order Enhancing Safeguards for United States Signals Intelligence Activities ( .), and June , , the European Union and the three additional countries making the EEA were designated the United States Attorney General "qualifying state" under Section ( ) the . July , , the European Commission adopted adequacy decision relation the United States. The adequacy decision concludes that the United States ensures adequate level protection for personal data transferred from the European Union organizations the United States that are included the "Data Privacy Framework List," maintained and made publicly available the United States Department Commerce pursuant the - . DPF. The implementation the - . DPF and the adequacy decision are important and welcome milestones, and are implementing steps comply with the above corrective orders following engagement with the IDPC. are required take additional steps comply with the corrective orders, this could increase the cost and complexity delivering our products and services Europe. Furthermore, the - . DPF replaces two prior adequacy frameworks which were invalidated the CJEU. further invalidation the - . DPF the CJEU could create considerable uncertainty and lead being unable offer number our most significant products and services, including Facebook and Instagram, Europe, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results operations. have been subject other significant legislative and regulatory developments, which together with proposed new legislation and regulations could significantly affect our business the future. For example, have implemented number product changes and controls result requirements under the GDPR, and may implement additional changes the future. The GDPR also requires submission personal data breach notifications our lead European Union privacy regulator, the IDPC, and includes significant penalties for non-compliance with the notification obligation well other requirements the regulation. The interpretation the GDPR still evolving, including through decisions the CJEU, and draft decisions investigations the IDPC are subject review other European privacy regulators part the GDPR\' consistency mechanism, which may lead significant changes the final outcome such investigations. result, the interpretation and enforcement the GDPR, well the imposition and amount penalties for non-compliance, are subject significant uncertainty, and evolves, could potentially have negative impact our business and our operations. addition, Brazil, the United Kingdom, and other countries have enacted similar data protection regulations imposing data privacy-related requirements products and services offered users their respective jurisdictions. The California Consumer Privacy Act, amended the California Privacy Rights Act, and similar laws recently enacted other states also establish certain transparency rules and create certain data privacy rights for users. Some states have also proposed enacted laws specifically focused the privacy rights and controls for users under years old and their parents guardians. Like comprehensive privacy laws, these laws are evolving and subject interpretation, and may restrict our ability offer certain products and services provided all certain cohorts users those states, adversely affecting our advertising business. addition, the European Union\' ePrivacy Directive and national implementation laws impose additional limitations the use data across messaging products and include significant penalties for non-compliance. Changes our products business practices result these similar developments have adversely affected, and may the future adversely affect, our advertising business. For example, response regulatory developments Europe, announced plans change the legal basis for behavioral advertising Facebook and Instagram the , EEA, and Switzerland from "legitimate interests" "consent," and November began offering users the region "subscription for ads" alternative. are continuing engage with regulators our new consent model, including regarding compliance with requirements under the GDPR, Digital Markets Act (DMA), and consumer laws. These any similar developments the future may negatively impact our user growth and engagement, revenue, and financial results. Similarly, there are number legislative proposals recently enacted laws the European Union, the United States, both the federal and state level, well other jurisdictions that could impose new obligations limitations areas affecting our business. For example, the DMA the European Union imposes new restrictions and requirements companies like ours, including areas such the combination data across services, mergers and acquisitions, and product design. The DMA also includes significant penalties for non-compliance, and its key requirements will enforceable against designated gatekeeper companies beginning March . The DMA has caused, and may the future cause, incur significant compliance costs and make changes our products business practices. The requirements under the DMA will likely subject further interpretation and regulatory engagement. Pending future proposals modify competition laws the United States and other jurisdictions could have similar effects. are also subject content-related legislation such the Digital Services Act (DSA) the European Union, which started apply our business August , imposes certain restrictions and requirements for our products and services, and subjects increased compliance costs. The DSA also includes significant penalties for non-compliance. addition, some countries, such India and Turkey, are considering have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements, new competition requirements, requiring local storage and processing data similar requirements that could require substantial changes our products, increase the cost and complexity delivering our services, cause cease the offering our products and services certain countries, and result fines other penalties. New legislation regulatory decisions that restrict our ability collect and use information about minors may also result limitations our advertising services our ability offer products and services minors certain jurisdictions. are, and expect continue , the subject investigations, inquiries, data requests, requests for information, actions, and audits government authorities and regulators the United States, Europe, and around the world, particularly the areas privacy, data use and data protection, including with respect processing sensitive data, data from third parties, data for advertising purposes, data security, minors, safety, law enforcement, consumer protection, civil rights, content moderation, use our platform for illegal, illicit, otherwise objectionable activity, competition, , and machine learning. are also currently, and may the future , subject regulatory orders consent decrees, including the modified consent order entered into with the . Federal Trade Commission (FTC), which took effect April and, among other things, required significantly enhance our practices and processes for privacy compliance and oversight. The FTC also continues monitor and our compliance with the modified consent order and initiated administrative proceeding against , which are challenging, that alleges deficient compliance and violations the Children\' Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), the COPPA Rule, and Section the Federal Trade Commission Act and seeks changes our business. are unsuccessful our challenge the FTC\' action and the agency imposes its proposed order its current form, would subject significant limitations, including our ability launch new and modified products use data users under years old. Orders issued , inquiries enforcement actions initiated , government regulatory authorities could cause incur substantial costs, expose civil and criminal liability (including liability for our personnel) penalties (including substantial monetary remedies), interrupt require change our business practices manner materially adverse our business (including changes our products user data practices), result negative publicity and reputational harm, divert resources and the time and attention management from our business, subject other structural behavioral remedies that adversely affect our business. For additional information about government regulation applicable our business, see Part , Item , "Risk Factors" this Annual Report Form - . Human Capital Meta, everything about helping people feel connected and closer, and are proud our unique company culture. had global workforce , employees December , , and have offices approximately cities around the world. are committed fostering enriching environment for our workforce and are focused supporting our people doing the best work their careers. offer competitive compensation and wide range benefits, including many learning and development resources, and work build diverse and inclusive workplace. Beginning November , took number steps reduce our expense base. For example, our cost reduction efforts have included scaling back budgets, reducing company perks, shrinking our real estate footprint, and employee layoffs and restructurings. make priority treat outgoing employees with respect and provide generous severance package. For . employees, that includes severance weeks base pay plus two additional weeks for every year service, payment for all remaining paid time off, restricted stock unit vesting through their last day payroll, health insurance, coverage the cost healthcare for employees and their families for six months, career services that included three months career support with external vendor and early access unpublished job leads, immigration support that included dedicated immigration specialists help guide employees based their needs. offer similar support for outgoing employees outside the United States while taking into account local employment laws. Employee Learning and Development value our investment growing and keeping highly skilled workforce. aim provide all our employees with regular performance reviews twice year believe important part how support their growth and career development while also recognizing and rewarding their impact Meta. also offer career development opportunities and work experience programs that extend beyond the physical and virtual classroom. this, utilize various learning modalities, such live virtual and -person learning experiences, -demand -learning, self-service resources, learning communities, and coaching engagements. The Pulse Our Workforce Each year, conduct company-wide employee surveys help understand how employees feel about working Meta and what can improve their experience. Our surveys help measure company, manager, team, and personal experience over time. Further, our more frequent surveys, such those that have been administered daily ongoing random sample employees, allow measure real-time sentiment around emerging events and company changes. These surveys are designed invite feedback and actionable suggestions, inform decisions, and drive change across the company. , expect update our listening strategy and product capabilities, based feedback from key groups, further improve actionability and impact. Compensation, Benefits, Health, and Well-being offer competitive compensation attract and retain the best people, and help care for our people they can focus our mission. Our employees\' total compensation package includes market-competitive salary, bonuses sales incentives, and equity. generally offer full-time employees equity the time hire and through annual equity grants because want them owners the company and committed our long-term success. have conducted pay equity analyses for many years, and continue committed pay equity. For example, July , announced that our analyses confirm that continue have pay equity across genders globally and race the United States for people similar jobs, accounting for factors such location, role, and level. Through Life@ Meta, our holistic approach benefits, continue provide our employees and their dependents with resources help them thrive. offer wide range benefits across areas such health, family, finance, community, and time away, including family building benefits, family care resources, retirement savings plans, access legal services, Meta Resource Groups build community Meta, and health and well-being benefits. Our health and well-being programs are designed give employees choice flexible benefits help them reach their personal well-being goals. Our programs are tailored help boost employee physical and mental health, create financial peace mind, provide support for families, and help employees build strong community. Programs are designed and funded support needs like autism care, cancer care, transgender services, holistic well-being, including mental health programs and retirement savings, which represent few the ways support our employees and their dependents. Diverse and Inclusive Workplace work build diverse and inclusive workplace where can leverage our collective cognitive diversity build the best products and make the best decisions for the global community serve. our Responsible Business Practices Report, published our global diversity and . ethnic diversity workforce data. December , , our global employee base was composed % underrepresented people, with % underrepresented people the ., and % our leaders the . being people color. published our Responsible Business Practices Report, people with disabilities now represent % our . workforce, and based voluntary self-identification, veterans represented % and members the LGBTQ+ community make % our . workforce. want our products work for people around the world and need grow and keep the best talent order that. also remain committed having skilled, inclusive and diverse workforce because believe cognitive diversity fuels innovation. aid this effort, have taken steps reduce bias from our hiring processes and performance management systems, well offering learning and development courses for our employees. Corporate Information were incorporated Delaware July . completed our initial public offering May and our Class common stock currently listed the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "META." Our principal executive offices are located Meta Way, Menlo Park, California , and our telephone number ( ) - . Meta, the Meta logo, Meta Quest, Meta Horizon, Facebook, , Instagram, Oculus, WhatsApp, Reels, and our other registered common law trademarks, service marks, trade names appearing this Annual Report Form - are the property Meta Platforms, Inc. its affiliates. Other trademarks, service marks, trade names appearing this Annual Report Form ‑ are the property their respective owners. Available Information Our Annual Reports Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act), are filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). are subject the informational requirements the Exchange Act and file furnish reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed with the SEC are available free charge our website investor com when such reports are available the SEC\' website. use our investor com and about com news/ websites well Mark Zuckerberg\' Facebook Page (www facebook com zuck), Instagram account (www instagram com zuck), and Threads profile (www threads net zuck) means disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC www sec gov. The contents the websites referred above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Certain factors may have material adverse effect our business, financial condition, and results operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, addition other information contained this Annual Report Form - , including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are unaware , that currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. any the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results operations, and future prospects could materially and adversely affected. that event, the trading price our Class common stock could decline, and you could lose part all your investment. Summary Risk Factors Our business subject number risks, including risks that may prevent from achieving our business objectives may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results operations, cash flows, and prospects. These risks are discussed more fully below and include, but are not limited , risks related : Risks Related Our Product Offerings • our ability add and retain users and maintain levels user engagement with our products; • the loss , reduction spending , our marketers; • reduced availability data signals used our targeting and measurement tools; • ineffective operation with mobile operating systems changes our relationships with mobile operating system partners; • failure our new products, changes our existing products, attract retain users generate revenue; Risks Related Our Business Operations and Financial Results • our ability compete effectively; • fluctuations our financial results; • unfavorable media coverage and other risks affecting our ability maintain and enhance our brands; • our ability build, maintain, and scale our technical infrastructure, and risks associated with disruptions our service, catastrophic events, and crises; • operating our business multiple countries around the world; • acquisitions and our ability successfully integrate our acquisitions; • litigation, including class action lawsuits; Risks Related Government Regulation and Enforcement • government restrictions access Facebook our other products, other actions that impair our ability sell advertising, their countries; • complex and evolving . and foreign privacy, data use and data protection, content, competition, consumer protection, and other laws and regulations, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Digital Markets Act (DMA), and Digital Services Act (DSA); • the impact government investigations, enforcement actions, and settlements, including litigation and investigations privacy, consumer protection, and competition authorities; • our ability comply with regulatory and legislative privacy requirements, including our consent order with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC); Risks Related Data, Security, Platform Integrity, and Intellectual Property • the occurrence security breaches, improper access disclosure our data user data, and other cyber incidents, well intentional misuse our services and other undesirable activity our platform; • our ability obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights; and Risks Related Ownership Our Class Common Stock • limitations the ability holders our Class Common Stock influence corporate matters due the dual class structure our common stock and the control majority the voting power our outstanding capital stock our founder, Board Chair, and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Risks Related Our Product Offerings fail retain existing users add new users, our users decrease their level engagement with our products, our revenue, financial results, and business may significantly harmed. The size our active user base and our users\' level engagement across our products are critical our success. Our financial performance has been and will continue significantly determined our success adding, retaining, and engaging active users our products that deliver impressions, particularly for Facebook and Instagram. have experienced, and expect continue experience, fluctuations and declines the size our active user base one more markets from time time, particularly markets where have achieved higher penetration rates. User growth and engagement are also impacted number other factors, including competitive products and services, such TikTok, that have reduced some users\' engagement with our products and services, well global and regional business, macroeconomic, and geopolitical conditions. For example, the COVID- pandemic led increases and decreases the size and engagement our active user base from period period different points during the pandemic. addition, connection with the war Ukraine, access Facebook and Instagram was restricted Russia and these services were then prohibited the Russian government, which contributed slight decreases the size our active user base following the onset the war. Any future declines the size our active user base may adversely impact our ability deliver impressions and, turn, our financial performance. people not perceive our products useful, reliable, and trustworthy, may not able attract retain users otherwise maintain increase the frequency and duration their engagement. number other social networking companies that achieved early popularity have since seen their active user bases levels engagement decline, some cases precipitously. There guarantee that will not experience similar erosion our active user base engagement levels. Our user engagement patterns have changed over time, and user engagement can difficult measure, particularly and our competitors introduce new and different products and services. Any number factors can negatively affect user retention, growth, and engagement, including : • users increasingly engage with other competitive products services; • fail introduce new features, products, services that users find engaging introduce new products services, make changes existing products and services, that are not favorably received; • users feel that their experience diminished result the decisions make with respect the frequency, prominence, format, size, and quality ads that display; • users have difficulty installing, updating, otherwise accessing our products mobile devices result actions third parties that rely distribute our products and deliver our services; • user behavior any our products changes, including decreases the quality and frequency content shared our products and services; • are unable continue develop products for mobile devices that users find engaging, that work with variety mobile operating systems and networks, and that achieve high level market acceptance; • there are decreases user sentiment due questions about the quality usefulness our products our user data practices, concerns about the nature content made available our products, concerns related privacy, safety, security, well-being, other factors; • are unable manage and prioritize information ensure users are presented with content that appropriate, interesting, useful, and relevant them; • are unable obtain attract engaging third-party content; • are unable successfully maintain grow usage and engagement with applications that integrate with our products; • users adopt new technologies where our products may displaced favor other products services, may not featured otherwise available; • there are changes mandated legislation, government and regulatory authorities, litigation that adversely affect our products users; • are unable offer number our most significant products and services, including Facebook and Instagram, Europe, are otherwise limited our business operations, result European courts invalidating the - . DPF regulators, courts, legislative bodies determining that the legal bases rely upon transfer user data from the European Union the United States are invalid; • there decreased engagement with our products, failure accept our terms service, part changes that have implemented may implement the future, whether voluntarily, connection with the GDPR, the European Union\' ePrivacy Directive, the DMA, the DSA, . state privacy and youth social media laws including the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), amended the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), Arkansas Social Media Safety Act, Ohio Parental Notification Act, Utah Social Media Regulation Act, other laws, regulations, regulatory actions, otherwise; • technical other problems prevent from delivering our products rapid and reliable manner otherwise affect the user experience, such security breaches failure prevent limit spam otherwise objectionable content, users feel their experience diminished result our efforts protect the security and integrity our platform; • adopt terms, policies, procedures related areas such sharing, content, user data, advertising, take, fail take, actions enforce our policies, that are perceived negatively our users the general public, including result decisions recommendations from the independent Oversight Board regarding content our platform; • elect focus our product decisions longer-term initiatives that not prioritize near-term user growth and engagement (for example, have announced plans focus product decisions optimizing the young adult experience the long term); • make changes our user account login registration processes changes how promote different products and services across our family products; • initiatives designed attract and retain users and engagement, including the use evolving technologies such generative artificial intelligence, are unsuccessful discontinued, whether result actions , our competitors, other third parties, otherwise; • third-party initiatives that may enable greater use our products, including low-cost discounted data plans, are scaled back discontinued, the pricing data plans otherwise increases; • there decreased engagement with our products result taxes imposed the use social media other mobile applications certain countries, internet shutdowns, other actions governments that affect the accessibility our products their countries (for example, beginning the first quarter , our user growth and engagement were adversely affected the war Ukraine and service restrictions imposed the Russian government); • fail provide adequate customer service users, marketers, developers, other partners; • , developers whose products are integrated with our products, other partners and companies our industry are the subject adverse media reports other negative publicity, including result our their user data practices; • our current future products, such our development tools and application programming interfaces that enable developers build, grow, and monetize applications, reduce user activity our products making easier for our users interact and share third-party applications. From time time, certain these factors have negatively affected user retention, growth, and engagement varying degrees. are unable maintain increase our user base and user engagement, particularly for our significant revenue-generating products like Facebook and Instagram, our revenue and financial results may adversely affected. Any significant decrease user retention, growth, engagement could render our products less attractive users, marketers, and developers, which likely have material and adverse impact our ability deliver impressions and, accordingly, our revenue, business, financial condition, and results operations. the size our active user base fluctuates one more markets from time time, will become increasingly dependent our ability maintain increase levels user engagement and monetization order grow revenue. generate substantially all our revenue from advertising. The loss marketers, reduction spending marketers, could seriously harm our business. Substantially all our revenue currently generated from marketers advertising Facebook and Instagram. common the industry, our marketers not have long-term advertising commitments with . Many our marketers spend only relatively small portion their overall advertising budget with . Marketers will not continue business with , they will reduce the budgets they are willing commit , not deliver ads effective manner, they not believe that their investment advertising with will generate competitive return relative other alternatives, they are not satisfied for any other reason. have implemented, and will continue implement, changes our user data practices. Some these changes reduce our ability effectively target ads, which has some extent adversely affected, and will continue adversely affect, our advertising business. are unable provide marketers with suitable return investment, the demand for our ads may not increase, may decline, which case our revenue and financial results may harmed. Our advertising revenue can also adversely affected number other factors, including: • decreases user engagement, including time spent our products; • our inability continue increase user access and engagement with our products; • product changes inventory management decisions may make that change the size, format, frequency, relative prominence ads displayed our products other unpaid content shared marketers our products; • our inability maintain increase marketer demand, the pricing our ads, both; • our inability maintain increase the quantity quality ads shown users; • changes the content application third-party policies that limit our ability deliver, target, measure the effectiveness advertising, including changes mobile operating system and browser providers such Apple and Google; • adverse litigation, government actions, legislative, regulatory, other legal developments relating advertising, including developments that may impact our ability deliver, target, measure the effectiveness advertising; • user behavior product changes that may reduce traffic features products that monetize higher rate, such our feed and Stories products, including result increased usage our Reels other video messaging products; • reductions advertising marketers due our efforts implement enforce advertising policies that protect the security and integrity our platform; • the availability, accuracy, utility, and security analytics and measurement solutions offered third parties that demonstrate the value our ads marketers, our ability further improve such tools; • loss advertising market share our competitors, including prices purchase our ads increase competitors offer lower priced, more integrated, otherwise more effective products; • limitations our ability offer number our most significant products and services, including Facebook and Instagram, Europe result European courts invalidating the - . DPF regulators, courts, legislative bodies determining that the legal bases rely upon transfer user data from the European Union the United States are invalid; • limitations our ability deliver ads users under the age and, some cases, continue offer certain products services certain cohorts users, whether voluntarily, result new laws and regulations the United States and other jurisdictions, otherwise; • changes our marketing and sales other operations that are required elect make result risks related complying with laws regulatory requirements other government actions; • decisions marketers reduce their advertising result announcements adverse media reports other negative publicity involving , our user data practices, our advertising metrics tools, content our products, our interpretation, implementation, enforcement policies relating content our products (including result decisions recommendations from the independent Oversight Board), developers with applications that are integrated with our products, other companies our industry; • reductions advertising marketers due illegal, illicit, otherwise objectionable content made available our products third parties, questions about our user data practices the security our platform, concerns about brand safety potential legal liability, uncertainty regarding their own legal and compliance obligations; • the effectiveness our targeting degree which users consent opt out the use data for ads, including result product changes and controls that have implemented may implement the future connection with the GDPR, ePrivacy Directive, CCPA, amended the CPRA, DMA, other laws, regulations, regulatory actions, litigation, otherwise, that impact our ability use data for advertising purposes (for example, November , response regulatory developments Europe, began offering our users "subscription for ads" alternative the , EEA, and Switzerland); • the degree which users cease reduce the number times they engage with our ads; • changes the way advertising mobile devices personal computers measured priced; • the success technologies designed block the display ads measurement tools; • changes the composition our marketer base our inability maintain grow our marketer base; and • the impact macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions, whether the advertising industry general, among specific types marketers within particular geographies, which turn can have broader effects other regions (for example, the war Ukraine and service restrictions imposed the Russian government have adversely affected our advertising business Europe and other regions, and advertiser spending also can subject adverse effects from the Israel-Hamas war). From time time, certain these factors have adversely affected our advertising revenue varying degrees. The occurrence any these other factors the future could result reduction demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices receive for our ads, cause marketers stop advertising with altogether, either which would negatively affect our revenue and financial results. Our targeting and measurement tools incorporate data signals from user activity websites and services that not control, well signals generated within our products, and changes the regulatory environment, third-party mobile operating systems and browsers, and our own products have impacted, and expect will continue impact, the availability such signals, which will adversely affect our advertising revenue. Our targeting and measurement tools rely data signals from user activity websites and services that not control, well signals generated within our products, order deliver relevant and effective ads our users, and any changes our ability use such signals will adversely affect our business. For example, legislative and regulatory developments, such the GDPR, ePrivacy Directive, and CCPA, amended the CPRA, have impacted, and expect will continue impact, our ability use such signals our products. particular, have seen increases the number users opting control certain types targeting Europe following product changes implemented connection with our GDPR and ePrivacy Directive compliance, and have introduced product changes that limit data signal use for certain users California following adoption the CCPA. Judicial and regulatory guidance, decisions, enforcement actions, new legislation these other jurisdictions, such the DMA, may require make additional changes our products the future that further reduce our ability use these signals, which has occurred the past. For example, response regulatory developments Europe, announced plans change the legal basis for behavioral advertising Facebook and Instagram the European Union, European Economic Area, and Switzerland from "legitimate interests" "consent," and November began offering users the region "subscription for ads" alternative. are continuing engage with regulators our new consent model, including regarding compliance with requirements under the GDPR, DMA, and consumer laws. addition, mobile operating system and browser providers, such Apple and Google, have implemented product changes and announced future plans limit the ability websites and application developers collect and use these signals target and measure advertising. For example, , Apple made certain changes its products and data use policies connection with changes its iOS operating system that reduce our and other iOS developers\' ability target and measure advertising, which has negatively impacted, and expect will continue negatively impact, the size the budgets marketers are willing commit and other advertising platforms. addition, have implemented, and may continue implement, product changes that give users the ability limit our use such data signals improve ads and other experiences our products and services, including changes implemented connection with the GDPR, ePrivacy Directive, DMA, and other regulatory frameworks. These developments have limited our ability target and measure the effectiveness ads our platform and negatively impacted our advertising revenue. For example, our advertising revenue has been negatively impacted marketer reaction targeting and measurement challenges associated with iOS changes beginning . are unable mitigate these developments they take further effect the future, our targeting and measurement capabilities will materially and adversely affected, which would turn significantly impact our advertising revenue. Our user growth, engagement, and monetization mobile devices depend upon effective operation with mobile operating systems, networks, technologies, products, and standards that not control. The substantial majority our revenue generated from advertising mobile devices. There guarantee that popular mobile devices will continue feature our products, that mobile device users will continue use our products rather than competing products. are dependent the interoperability our products with popular mobile operating systems, networks, technologies, products, and standards that not control, such the Android and iOS operating systems and mobile browsers. Changes, bugs, technical issues such systems, changes our relationships with mobile operating system partners, handset manufacturers, browser developers, mobile carriers, the content application their terms service policies (which they have made the past and continue seek implement) that degrade our products\' functionality, reduce eliminate our ability update distribute our products, give preferential treatment competitive products, limit our ability deliver, target, measure the effectiveness ads, charge fees related the distribution our products our delivery ads have adversely affected, and could the future adversely affect, the usage our products and monetization mobile devices. For example, Apple previously released update its Safari browser that limits the use third-party cookies, which reduces our ability provide the most relevant ads our users and impacts monetization, and also released changes iOS that limit our ability target and measure ads effectively, while expanding their own advertising business. addition, January , Google began the process phasing out third-party cookies its Chrome browser. expect that any similar changes Apple\' , Google\' , other browser mobile platforms will further limit our ability target and measure the effectiveness ads and impact monetization. Additionally, order deliver high quality mobile products, important that our products work well with range mobile technologies, products, systems, networks, and standards that not control, and that have good relationships with handset manufacturers, mobile carriers, and browser developers. may not successful maintaining developing relationships with key participants the mobile ecosystem developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, products, systems, networks, standards. the event that more difficult for our users access and use our products their mobile devices, our users choose not access use our products their mobile devices use mobile products that not offer access our products, our user growth and user engagement could harmed. From time time, may also take actions regarding the distribution our products the operation our business based what believe our long-term best interests. Such actions may adversely affect our users and our relationships with the operators mobile operating systems, handset manufacturers, mobile carriers, browser developers, other business partners, advertisers, and there assurance that these actions will result the anticipated long-term benefits. the event that our users are adversely affected these actions our relationships with such third parties deteriorate, our user growth, engagement, and monetization could adversely affected and our business could harmed. have experienced challenges operating with mobile operating systems, networks, technologies, products, and standards that not control, and any such occurrences the future may negatively impact our user growth, engagement, and monetization mobile devices, which may turn materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our new products and changes existing products could fail attract retain users generate revenue and profits, otherwise adversely affect our business. Our ability retain, increase, and engage our user base and increase our revenue depends heavily our ability continue evolve our existing products and create successful new products, both independently and conjunction with developers other third parties. may introduce significant changes our existing products acquire introduce new and unproven products, including using technologies with which have little prior development operating experience. For example, have relatively limited experience with consumer hardware products and virtual and augmented reality technology, which may adversely affect our ability successfully develop and market these evolving products and technologies. are also making significant investments artificial intelligence ( ) initiatives across our business. For example, recently launched new features our products, including conversational AIs, stickers, and editing tools. continue incur substantial costs, and may not successful generating profits, connection with these efforts. addition, have invested, and expect continue invest, significant resources growing our messaging products support increasing usage such products. have historically monetized messaging only limited fashion, and may not successful our efforts generate meaningful revenue profits from messaging over the long term. also recently commenced implementation end- -end encryption across our messaging services Facebook and Instagram, which has been subject governmental and regulatory scrutiny multiple jurisdictions. our new products changes existing products fail engage users, marketers, developers, our business plans are unsuccessful, may fail attract retain users generate sufficient revenue, operating margin, other value justify our investments, and our business may adversely affected. may not successful our artificial intelligence initiatives, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial results. are making significant investments initiatives, including generative , , among other things, recommend relevant content across our products, enhance our advertising tools, develop new products, and develop new features for existing products. particular, expect our initiatives will require increased investment infrastructure and headcount. There are significant risks involved developing and deploying and there can assurance that the usage will enhance our products services beneficial our business, including our efficiency profitability. For example, our -related efforts, particularly those related generative , subject risks related harmful illegal content, accuracy, misinformation (including related elections), bias, discrimination, toxicity, intellectual property infringement misappropriation, defamation, data privacy, cybersecurity, and sanctions and export controls, among others. also uncertain how various laws related online services, intermediary liability, and other issues will apply content generated . addition, are subject the risks new enhanced governmental regulatory scrutiny, litigation, other legal liability, ethical concerns, negative consumer perceptions automation and , activities that threaten people\' safety well-being - offline, other complications that could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial results. result the complexity and rapid development , also the subject evolving review various governmental and regulatory agencies jurisdictions around the world, which are applying, are considering applying, platform moderation, intellectual property, cybersecurity, and data protection laws and are considering general legal frameworks . may not always able anticipate how courts and regulators will apply existing laws , predict how new legal frameworks will develop address , otherwise respond these frameworks they are still rapidly evolving. may also have expend resources adjust our offerings certain jurisdictions the legal frameworks are not consistent across jurisdictions. Further, face significant competition from other companies that are developing their own features and technologies. Other companies may develop features and technologies that are similar superior our technologies are more cost-effective develop and deploy. Given the long history development the sector, other parties may have ( the future may obtain) patents other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit, interfere with our ability make, use, sell our own features. Further, our ability continue develop and effectively deploy technologies dependent access specific third-party equipment and other physical infrastructure, such processing hardware and network capacity, which cannot control the availability pricing, especially highly competitive environment. are also developing technology that make available via open source, commercial, and non-commercial license agreements third-parties that can use this technology for use their own products and services. may not have insight into, control over, the practices third parties who may utilize such technologies. such, cannot guarantee that third parties will not use such technologies for improper purposes, including through the dissemination illegal, inaccurate, defamatory harmful content, intellectual property infringement misappropriation, furthering bias discrimination, cybersecurity attacks, data privacy violations, other activities that threaten people\' safety well-being - offline, develop competing technologies. While may mitigate certain risks associated with the improper use our models through both technical measures and the inclusion contractual restrictions third-party use any agreement between and any third party, cannot guarantee that such measures will effective. Such improper use any third party could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial results subject legal liability. not possible predict all the risks related the use and changes laws, rules, directives, and regulations governing the use may adversely affect our ability develop and use subject legal liability. make product and investment decisions that may not prioritize short-term financial results and may not produce the long-term benefits that expect. frequently make product and investment decisions that may not prioritize short-term financial results believe that the decisions are consistent with our mission and benefit the aggregate user experience and will thereby improve our financial performance over the long term. For example, have implemented, and will continue implement, changes our user data practices. Some these changes reduce our ability effectively target ads, which has some extent adversely affected, and will continue adversely affect, our advertising business. For example, our Off-Facebook Activity tool enables users place limits our storage and use information about their interactions with advertisers\' apps and websites, which reduces our ability deliver the most relevant and effective ads our users. Similarly, from time time update our feed display and ranking algorithms other product features improve the user experience, and these changes have had, and may the future have, the effect reducing time spent and some measures user engagement with our products, which could adversely affect our financial results. From time time, also change the size, frequency, relative prominence ads part our product and monetization strategies. addition, have made, and expect continue make, other changes our products which may adversely affect the distribution content publishers, marketers, and developers, and could reduce their incentive invest their efforts our products. also may introduce new features other changes existing products, introduce new stand-alone products, that attract users away from properties, formats, use cases where have more proven means monetization, such our feed products. addition, focus growing users and engagement across our family products, from time time these efforts have reduced, and may the future reduce, engagement with one more products and services favor other products services that monetize less successfully that are not growing quickly. For example, plan continue promote Reels, which expect will continue monetize lower rate than our feed and Stories products for the foreseeable future. These decisions may adversely affect our business and results operations and may not produce the long-term benefits that expect. may not successful our metaverse strategy and investments, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial results. believe the metaverse, embodied internet where people have immersive experiences beyond two-dimensional screens, the next evolution social technology. , announced shift our business and product strategy focus helping bring the metaverse life. expect this will complex, evolving, and long-term initiative that will involve the development new and emerging technologies, continued investment infrastructure well privacy, safety, and security efforts, and collaboration with other companies, developers, partners, and other participants. However, the metaverse may not develop accordance with our expectations, and market acceptance features, products, services build for the metaverse uncertain. regularly evaluate our product roadmaps and make significant changes our understanding the technological challenges and market landscape and our product ideas and designs evolve. addition, have relatively limited experience with consumer hardware products and virtual and augmented reality technology, which may enable other companies compete more effectively than . may unsuccessful our research and product development efforts, including are unable develop relationships with key participants the metaverse develop products that operate effectively with metaverse technologies, products, systems, networks, standards. Our metaverse efforts may also divert resources and management attention from other areas our business. expect continue make significant investments virtual and augmented reality and other technologies support these efforts, and our ability support these efforts dependent generating sufficient profits from other areas our business. addition, our metaverse efforts evolve, may subject variety existing new laws and regulations the United States and international jurisdictions, including the areas privacy, safety, competition, content regulation, consumer protection, and -commerce, which may delay impede the development our products and services, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, otherwise harm our business. result these other factors, our metaverse strategy and investments may not successful the foreseeable future, all, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial results. are not able maintain and enhance our brands, our ability maintain expand our base users, marketers, and developers may impaired, and our business and financial results may harmed. believe that our brands have significantly contributed the success our business. also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands critical maintaining and expanding our base users, marketers, and developers. Many our new users are referred existing users. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely our ability continue provide useful, reliable, trustworthy, and innovative products, which may not successfully. may introduce new products, terms service, policies that users not like, which may negatively affect our brands. Additionally, the actions our developers advertisers may affect our brands users not have positive experience using third-party applications integrated with our products interacting with parties that advertise through our products. will also continue experience media, legislative, regulatory scrutiny our actions decisions regarding user privacy, data use, encryption, content, product design, algorithms, advertising, competition, generative , younger users, and other issues, including actions decisions connection with elections geopolitical events, which has adversely affected, and may the future adversely affect, our reputation and brands. For example, beginning September , became the subject media, legislative, and regulatory scrutiny result former employee\' allegations and release internal company documents relating , among other things, our algorithms, advertising and user metrics, and content enforcement practices, well misinformation and other undesirable activity our platform, and user well-being. addition, March , announced developments regarding the misuse certain data developer that shared such data with third parties violation our terms and policies. also may fail respond expeditiously appropriately the sharing content our services, practices advertisers developers, that are illegal, illicit, violation our policies, fail otherwise enforce our policies, address objectionable content practices our services, address other user concerns, which has occurred the past and which could erode confidence our brands. Our brands may also negatively affected the actions users that are deemed hostile inappropriate other users, the actions users acting under false inauthentic identities, the use our products services disseminate information that deemed misleading ( intended manipulate opinions), perceived actual efforts governments obtain access user information for security-related purposes censor certain content our platform, the use our products services for illicit objectionable ends, including, for example, any such actions around geopolitical events elections the United States and around the world, decisions recommendations regarding content our platform from the independent Oversight Board, research media reports concerning the perceived actual impacts our products services user well-being, our decisions regarding whether remove content suspend participation our platform persons who violate our community standards terms service, any negative sentiment associated with our management. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will require make substantial investments and these investments may not successful. Certain our actions, such the foregoing matter regarding developer misuse data and concerns around our handling political speech and advertising, hate speech, and other content, well user well-being issues, have eroded confidence our brands and may continue the future. fail successfully promote and maintain our brands incur excessive expenses this effort, our business and financial results may adversely affected. may not able continue successfully maintain grow usage and engagement with applications that integrate with our products. have made and are continuing make investments enable developers build, grow, and monetize applications that integrate with our products. Such existing and prospective developers may not successful building, growing, monetizing applications that create and maintain user engagement. Additionally, developers may choose build other platforms, including platforms controlled third parties, rather than building products that integrate with our products. are continuously seeking balance the distribution objectives our developers with our desire provide optimal user experience, and may not successful achieving balance that continues attract and retain such developers. For example, from time time, have taken actions reduce the volume communications from these developers users our products with the objective enhancing the user experience, and such actions have reduced distribution from, user engagement with, and our monetization opportunities from, applications integrated with our products. addition, part our efforts related privacy, safety, and security, conduct investigations and audits platform applications from time time, and also have announced several product changes that restrict developer access certain user data. some instances, these actions, well other actions enforce our policies applicable developers, have adversely affected, will adversely affect, our relationships with developers. are not successful our efforts maintain grow the number developers that choose build products that integrate with our products are unable continue build and maintain good relations with such developers, our user growth and user engagement and our financial results may adversely affected. Risks Related Our Business Operations and Financial Results Our business highly competitive. Competition presents ongoing threat the success our business. compete with companies providing connection, sharing, discovery, and communication products and services users online, well companies that sell advertising businesses looking reach consumers and develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. face significant competition every aspect our business, including, but not limited , companies that facilitate the ability users create, share, communicate, and discover content and information online enable marketers reach their existing prospective audiences. compete attract, engage, and retain people who use our products, attract and retain businesses that use our free paid business and advertising services, and attract and retain developers who build compelling applications that integrate with our products. also compete with companies that develop and deliver consumer hardware and virtual and augmented reality products and services. also expect face additional competition introduce acquire new products, our existing products evolve, other companies introduce new products and services, including part efforts develop the metaverse innovate through the development and application new technologies such . Some our current and potential competitors may have greater resources, experience, stronger competitive positions certain product segments, geographic regions, user demographics than . For example, some our competitors may domiciled different countries and subject political, legal, and regulatory regimes that enable them compete more effectively than . These factors may allow our competitors respond more effectively than new emerging technologies and changes market conditions. believe that some users, particularly younger users, are aware and actively engaging with other products and services similar , substitute for, our products and services, and believe that some users have reduced their use and engagement with our products and services favor these other products and services. addition, from time time make updates our products and services improve the user experience (including help provide users with safe, positive, age-appropriate experiences), and these changes have had, and may the future have, the effect reducing time spent and some measures user engagement with our products and services. the event that users increasingly engage with other products and services, may experience decline use and engagement key user demographics more broadly, which case our business would likely harmed. Our competitors may develop products, features, services that are similar ours that achieve greater acceptance, may undertake more far-reaching and successful product development efforts marketing campaigns, may adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Some competitors may gain competitive advantage against areas where operate, including: making acquisitions; limiting our ability deliver, target, measure the effectiveness ads; imposing fees other charges related our applications our delivery ads; making access our products more difficult impossible; making more difficult communicate with our users; integrating competing platforms, applications, features into products they control such mobile device operating systems, search engines, browsers, -commerce platforms. For example, each Apple and Google have integrated competitive products with iOS and Android, respectively. addition, Apple has released changes iOS that limit our ability, and the ability others the digital advertising industry, target and measure ads effectively. result, our competitors may, and some cases will, acquire and engage users generate advertising other revenue the expense our own efforts, which would negatively affect our business and financial results. addition, from time time, may take actions response competitive threats, but cannot assure you that these actions will successful that they will not negatively affect our business and financial results. believe that our ability compete effectively depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: • the popularity, usefulness, ease use, performance, and reliability our products compared our competitors\' products; • the size and composition our user base; • the engagement users with our products and competing products; • our ability attract and retain businesses who use our free paid business and advertising services; • the timing and market acceptance products, including developments and enhancements our our competitors\' products; • our safety and security efforts and our ability protect user data and provide users with control over their data; • our ability distribute our products new and existing users; • our ability monetize our products; • the frequency, size, format, quality, and relative prominence the ads displayed our competitors; • customer service and support efforts; • marketing and selling efforts, including our ability measure the effectiveness our ads and provide marketers with compelling return their investments; • our ability establish and maintain developers\' interest building applications that integrate with our products; • our ability establish and maintain publisher interest integrating their content with our products; • changes mandated legislation, regulatory authorities, litigation, some which may have disproportionate effect ; • acquisitions consolidation within our industry, which may result more formidable competitors; • our ability attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, particularly software engineers, designers, and product managers; • our ability cost-effectively manage our operations; and • our reputation and brand strength relative those our competitors. are not able compete effectively, our user base, level user engagement, and ability deliver impressions may decrease, may become less attractive developers and marketers, and our revenue and results operations may materially and adversely affected. Our financial results will fluctuate from quarter quarter and are difficult predict. Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated the past and will fluctuate the future. Additionally, have limited operating history with the current scale our business, which makes difficult forecast our future results. result, you should not rely upon our past quarterly financial results indicators future performance. You should take into account the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered companies rapidly evolving markets. Our financial results any given quarter can influenced numerous factors, many which are unable predict are outside our control, including: • our ability maintain and grow our user base and user engagement, particularly for our products that deliver impressions; • our ability attract and retain marketers particular period; • our ability recognize revenue collect payments from marketers advertising agencies resellers particular period; • fluctuations spending our marketers due seasonality, such historically strong spending the fourth quarter each year, episodic regional global events, other factors; • the frequency, prominence, size, format, and quality ads shown users; • the success technologies designed block the display ads; • changes the content application third-party policies that limit our ability deliver, target, measure the effectiveness advertising, including changes mobile operating system and browser providers such Apple and Google; • the pricing our ads and other products; • the diversification and growth revenue sources beyond advertising Facebook and Instagram; • our ability generate revenue from Payments, the sale our consumer hardware products other products may introduce the future; • changes existing products services the development and introduction new products services our competitors; • user behavior product changes that may reduce traffic features products that successfully monetize; • increases marketing, sales, and other operating expenses that will incur grow and expand our business and remain competitive, including costs related our data centers and technical infrastructure; • costs related our privacy, safety, security, and content review efforts, including result implementing changes our practices, whether voluntarily, connection with laws, regulations, regulatory actions, decisions recommendations from the independent Oversight Board, otherwise; • costs and expenses related the development, manufacturing, and delivery our consumer hardware products; • our ability maintain gross margins and operating margins; • costs related acquisitions, including costs associated with amortization and additional investments develop the acquired technologies; • charges associated with impairment abandonment any assets our balance sheet, including result changes our real property lease arrangements and data center assets; • our ability obtain equipment, components, and labor for our data centers and other technical infrastructure timely and cost-effective manner; • system failures outages government blocking that prevent from serving ads for any period time; • breaches security privacy, and the costs associated with any such breaches and remediation; • changes the manner which distribute our products inaccessibility our products due third-party actions; • fees paid third parties for content the distribution our products; • refunds other concessions provided advertisers; • share-based compensation expense, including acquisition-related expense; • adverse litigation judgments, settlements, other litigation-related costs; • changes the legislative regulatory environment, including with respect privacy, data protection, antitrust, content, , actions governments regulators, including fines, orders, consent decrees; • the overall tax rate for our business, which affected the mix income earn the . and jurisdictions with different tax rates, the effects share-based compensation, the effects integrating intellectual property from acquisitions, the effects changes our business structure, and the effects discrete items such legal and tax settlements and tax elections; • the impact changes tax laws judicial regulatory interpretations tax laws, which are recorded the period such laws are enacted interpretations are issued, and may significantly affect the effective tax rate that period; • tax obligations that may arise from resolutions tax examinations, including the examination are currently under the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), that materially differ from the amounts have anticipated; • fluctuations currency exchange rates and changes the proportion our revenue and expenses denominated foreign currencies; • trading activity our share repurchase program; • fluctuations the market values our investments marketable securities, the valuation our non-marketable equity securities, and interest rates; • the incurrence indebtedness our ability refinance existing indebtedness acceptable terms; • changes . generally accepted accounting principles; and • changes regional global business, macroeconomic, geopolitical conditions, which may impact the other factors described above. Unfavorable media coverage negatively affects our business. receive high degree media coverage around the world. Our reputation has been, and could the future , adversely affected unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, our privacy practices, advertising policies, product decisions, product quality, litigation regulatory activity, government surveillance, the actions our advertisers, the actions our developers whose products are integrated with our products, the use our products services for illicit objectionable ends, the substance enforcement our community standards, terms service, other policies, the actions our users, the quality and integrity content shared our platform, the perceived actual impacts our products services user well-being, our management, the actions other companies that provide similar services ours. For example, have been the subject significant media coverage involving concerns around our handling political speech and advertising, hate speech, and other content, well user well-being issues, and continue receive negative publicity related these topics. Beginning September , became the subject significant media coverage result allegations and the release internal company documents former employee. addition, have been, and may the future , subject negative publicity connection with our handling misinformation and other illicit objectionable use our products services, including connection with geopolitical events and elections the United States and around the world. Any such negative publicity could have adverse effect the size, engagement, and loyalty our user base and marketer demand for advertising our products, which could result decreased revenue and adversely affect our business and financial results, and have experienced such adverse effects varying degrees from time time. are subject the risk catastrophic events and crises, which may have significant adverse impact our business and operations. are subject the risk public health crises such pandemics, earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorism, geopolitical conflict, other physical security threats, power loss, cyber-attacks, and other catastrophic events and crises. For example, the COVID- pandemic previously significantly impacted our business and results operations. particular, the pandemic resulted authorities implementing numerous preventative measures from time time contain mitigate the outbreak the virus, such travel bans and restrictions, limitations business activity, quarantines, and shelter- -place orders, which caused business slowdowns shutdowns certain affected countries and regions. These developments led volatility the demand for and pricing our advertising services various points throughout the pandemic, and may experience similar effects the future result the pandemic other catastrophic events. Such events also expose our business, operations, and workforce variety other risks, including: • volatility the size our user base and user engagement; • delays product development releases, reductions manufacturing production and sales consumer hardware, result inventory shortages, supply chain labor shortages; • significant volatility and disruption global financial markets, which could cause fluctuations currency exchange rates negatively impact our ability access capital the future; • illnesses key employees, significant portion our workforce, which may result inefficiencies, delays, and disruptions our business; and • increased volatility and uncertainty the financial projections use the basis for estimates used our financial statements. Any these developments may adversely affect our business, harm our reputation, result legal regulatory actions against . incur significant expenses operating our business, and some our investments, particularly our investments Reality Labs, have the effect reducing our operating margin and profitability. our investments are not successful longer-term, our business and financial performance will harmed. incur significant expenses operating our business, and expect our expenses continue increase the future broaden our user base, users increase the amount and types content they consume and the data they share with , for example with respect video, develop and implement new products, market new and existing products and promote our brands, continue expand our technical infrastructure, continue invest new and unproven technologies, including and machine learning, and continue our efforts focus privacy, safety, security, and content review. have recently undertaken cost reduction measures light more challenging operating environment, which may adversely affect these other business initiatives, and some these measures have involved, and may the future involve, -front charges and outlays cash reduce certain longer-term expenses. addition, from time time are subject settlements, judgments, fines, other monetary penalties connection with legal and regulatory developments that may material our business. are also continuing increase our investments new platforms and technologies, including part our efforts related building the metaverse. Some these investments, particularly our significant investments Reality Labs, have generated only limited revenue and reduced our operating margin and profitability, and expect the adverse financial impact such investments continue for the foreseeable future. For example, our investments Reality Labs reduced our overall operating profit approximately $ billion, and expect our Reality Labs investments and operating losses increase meaningfully . our investments are not successful longer-term, our business and financial performance will harmed. Our business dependent our ability maintain and scale our technical infrastructure, and any significant disruption our products and services could damage our reputation, result potential loss users and engagement, and adversely affect our financial results. Our reputation and ability attract, retain, and serve our users dependent upon the reliable performance our products and services and our underlying technical infrastructure. have experienced, and may the future experience, interruptions the availability performance our products and services from time time. Our systems may not adequately designed may not operate with the reliability and redundancy necessary avoid performance delays outages that could harmful our business. our products services are unavailable when users attempt access them, they not load quickly expected, users may not use our products services often the future, all, and our ability serve ads may disrupted, any which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. have experienced such issues varying degrees from time time. addition, the amount and types information shared our products continue grow and evolve, the usage patterns our global community continue evolve, and our internal operational demands continue grow, especially with the deployment technologies, will need increasing amount technical infrastructure, including network capacity and computing power, continue satisfy our needs. possible that may fail continue effectively scale and grow our technical infrastructure accommodate these increased demands, which may adversely affect our user engagement and advertising revenue. addition, our business may subject interruptions, delays, failures resulting from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, power loss, terrorism, geopolitical conflict, other physical security threats, cyber-attacks, other catastrophic events and crises. Global climate change could result certain types natural disasters occurring more frequently with more intense effects. Any such events may result users being subject service disruptions outages and may not able recover our technical infrastructure and user data timely manner restart provide our services, which may adversely affect our financial results. also have been, and may the future , subject increased energy and other costs maintain the availability performance our products and services connection with any such events. substantial portion our technical infrastructure provided third parties. Any disruption failure the services receive from these providers could harm our ability handle existing increased traffic and could significantly harm our business. Any financial other difficulties these providers face may adversely affect our business, and exercise little control over these providers, which increases our vulnerability problems with the services they provide. have experienced, and expect continue experience, various challenges with the supply chain related supporting our technical infrastructure. result, have adjusted, and may continue adjust the future, our procurement practices adapt the evolving landscape. may not able secure sufficient components, equipment, services from third parties satisfy our needs, may required procure such components, equipment, services unfavorable terms. Any these developments may result interruptions the availability performance our products services, require unfavorable changes existing products services, delay the introduction future products services, otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. have experienced, and could experience the future, difficulties building and operating key portions our technical infrastructure. have designed and built our own data centers and key portions our technical infrastructure through which serve our products, and plan continue significantly expand the size our infrastructure primarily through data centers, subsea and terrestrial fiber optic cable systems, and other projects. The infrastructure expansion are undertaking complex and involves projects multiple locations around the world, including developing regions that expose increased risks relating anti-corruption compliance, trade compliance, and political challenges, among others. have changed, suspended, and terminated certain these projects result various factors, and may continue the future. Additional unanticipated delays disruptions the completion these projects, including due the availability components, power, network capacity, any shortage labor necessary building portions such projects, challenges obtaining required government regulatory approvals, other geopolitical challenges actions governments, whether result trade disputes otherwise, may lead increased project costs, operational inefficiencies, interruptions the delivery degradation the quality reliability our products and services, impairment assets our balance sheet. For example, like others our industry, rely certain third-party equipment and components for our technical infrastructure that are manufactured small number third parties, often with significant operations single region such Asia. Any the foregoing delays disruptions, including actions governments geopolitical events such international conflicts, could result tariffs, sanctions, export controls, and other measures that restrict international trade, could reduce eliminate the ability our suppliers, manufacturers, other third-party providers continue their operations manufacture, limit eliminate our ability purchase, key components our technical infrastructure. addition, there may issues related this infrastructure that are not identified during the testing phases design and implementation, which may only become evident after have started fully utilize the underlying equipment, that could further degrade the user experience increase our costs. Further, much our technical infrastructure located outside the United States, and action foreign government, our response such government action, has resulted, and may result the future, the impairment portion our technical infrastructure, which may interrupt the delivery degrade the quality reliability our products and lead negative user experience increase our costs. Any these events could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial results. Real perceived inaccuracies our community and other metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. The numbers for our key metrics, which include our Family metrics (DAP, MAP, and average revenue per person (ARPP)) and Facebook metrics (DAUs, MAUs, and average revenue per user (ARPU)), are calculated using internal company data based the activity user accounts. While these numbers are based what believe reasonable estimates our user base for the applicable period measurement, there are inherent challenges measuring usage our products across large online and mobile populations around the world. The methodologies used measure these metrics require significant judgment and are also susceptible algorithm other technical errors. addition, are continually seeking improve our estimates our user base, and such estimates may change due improvements changes our methodology. regularly review our processes for calculating these metrics, and from time time discover inaccuracies our metrics make adjustments improve their accuracy, which can result adjustments our historical metrics. Our ability recalculate our historical metrics may impacted data limitations other factors that require apply different methodologies for such adjustments. generally not intend update previously disclosed Family metrics for any such inaccuracies adjustments that are within the error margins disclosed below. addition, our Family metrics and Facebook metrics estimates will differ from estimates published third parties due differences methodology other factors such data limitations other challenges measuring large online and mobile populations. For example, our Family metrics estimates some instances exceed estimates addressable online and mobile populations that are based data published third parties. Many people our community have user accounts more than one our products, and some people have multiple user accounts within individual product. Accordingly, for our Family metrics, not seek count the total number user accounts across our products because believe that would not reflect the actual size our community. Rather, our Family metrics represent our estimates the number unique people using least one Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, and WhatsApp. not require people use common identifier link their accounts use multiple products our Family, and therefore must seek attribute multiple user accounts within and across products individual people. calculate these metrics, rely upon complex techniques, algorithms and machine learning models that seek count the individual people behind user accounts, including matching multiple user accounts within individual product and across multiple products when believe they are attributable single person, and counting such group accounts one person. These techniques and models require significant judgment, are subject data and other limitations discussed below, and inherently are subject statistical variances and uncertainties. estimate the potential error our Family metrics primarily based user survey data, which itself subject error well. While expect the error margin for our Family metrics vary from period period, estimate that such margin generally will approximately % our worldwide MAP. our scale, very difficult attribute multiple user accounts within and across products individual people, and possible that the actual numbers unique people using our products may vary significantly from our estimates, potentially beyond our estimated error margins. result, also possible that our Family metrics may indicate changes trends user numbers that not match actual changes trends. calculate our estimates Family DAP and MAP, currently use series machine learning models that are developed based internal reviews limited samples user accounts and calibrated against user survey data. apply significant judgment designing these models and calculating these estimates. For example, match user accounts within individual products and across multiple products, use data signals such similar device information, addresses, and user names. also calibrate our models against data from periodic user surveys varying sizes and frequency across our products, which are inherently subject error. The timing and results such user surveys have the past contributed, and may the future contribute, changes our reported Family metrics from period period. addition, our data limitations may affect our understanding certain details our business and increase the risk error for our Family metrics estimates. Our techniques and models rely variety data signals from different products, and rely more limited data signals for some products compared others. For example, result limited visibility into encrypted products, have fewer data signals from WhatsApp user accounts and primarily rely phone numbers and device information match WhatsApp user accounts with accounts our other products. Any loss access data signals use our process for calculating Family metrics, whether result our own product decisions, actions third-party browser mobile platforms, regulatory legislative requirements, other factors, also may impact the stability accuracy our reported Family metrics, well our ability report these metrics all. Our estimates Family metrics also may change our methodologies evolve, including through the application new data signals technologies, product changes, other improvements our user surveys, algorithms, machine learning that may improve our ability match accounts within and across our products otherwise evaluate the broad population our users. addition, such evolution may allow identify previously undetected violating accounts ( defined below). regularly evaluate our Family metrics estimate the percentage our MAP consisting solely "violating" accounts. define "violating" accounts accounts which believe are intended used for purposes that violate our terms service, including bots and spam. the fourth quarter , estimated that approximately % our worldwide MAP consisted solely violating accounts. Such estimation based internal review limited sample accounts, and apply significant judgment making this determination. For example, look for account information and behaviors associated with Facebook and Instagram accounts that appear inauthentic the reviewers, but have limited visibility into WhatsApp user activity due encryption. addition, believe individual person has one more violating accounts, not include such person our violating accounts estimation long believe they have one account that does not constitute violating account. From time time, disable certain user accounts, make product changes, take other actions reduce the number violating accounts among our users, which may also reduce our DAP and MAP estimates particular period. Violating accounts are very difficult measure our scale, and possible that the actual number violating accounts may vary significantly from our estimates. also regularly evaluate our Facebook metrics estimate the number "duplicate" and "false" accounts among our MAUs. duplicate account one that user maintains addition his her principal account. divide "false" accounts into two categories: ( ) user-misclassified accounts, where users have created personal profiles for business, organization, non-human entity such pet (such entities are permitted Facebook using Page rather than personal profile under our terms service); and ( ) violating accounts, which represent user profiles that believe are intended used for purposes that violate our terms service, such bots and spam. The estimates duplicate and false accounts are based internal review limited sample accounts, and apply significant judgment making this determination. For example, identify duplicate accounts use data signals such identical addresses and similar user names, and identify false accounts look for names that appear fake other behavior that appears inauthentic the reviewers. Any loss access data signals use this process, whether result our own product decisions, actions third-party browser mobile platforms, regulatory legislative requirements, other factors, also may impact the stability accuracy our estimates duplicate and false accounts. Our estimates also may change our methodologies evolve, including through the application new data signals technologies product changes that may allow identify previously undetected duplicate false accounts and may improve our ability evaluate broader population our users. Duplicate and false accounts are very difficult measure our scale, and possible that the actual number duplicate and false accounts may vary significantly from our estimates. the fourth quarter , estimated that duplicate accounts may have represented approximately % our worldwide MAUs. believe the percentage duplicate accounts meaningfully higher developing markets such the Philippines and Vietnam, compared more developed markets. the fourth quarter , estimated that false accounts may have represented approximately % our worldwide MAUs. Our estimation false accounts can vary result episodic spikes the creation such accounts, which have seen originate more frequently specific countries such Indonesia, Vietnam, and Nigeria. From time time, disable certain user accounts, make product changes, take other actions reduce the number duplicate false accounts among our users, which may also reduce our DAU and MAU estimates particular period. Other data limitations also may affect our understanding certain details our business. For example, while user-provided data indicates decline usage among younger users, this age data may unreliable because disproportionate number our younger users register with inaccurate age. Accordingly, our understanding usage age group may not complete. addition, our data regarding the geographic location our users estimated based number factors, such the user\' address and self-disclosed location. These factors may not always accurately reflect the user\' actual location. For example, user may appear accessing Facebook from the location the proxy server that the user connects rather than from the user\' actual location. The methodologies used measure our metrics are also susceptible algorithm other technical errors, and our estimates for revenue user location and revenue user device are also affected these factors. addition, from time time provide, rely , certain other metrics and estimates, including those relating the reach and effectiveness our ads. Many our metrics involve the use estimations and judgments, and our metrics and estimates are subject software bugs, inconsistencies our systems, and human error. Such metrics and estimates also change from time time due improvements changes our terminology methodology, including result loss access data signals use calculating such metrics and estimates. have been, and may the future , subject litigation well marketer, regulatory, and other inquiries regarding the accuracy such metrics and estimates. Where marketers, developers, investors not perceive our metrics estimates accurate, where discover material inaccuracies our metrics estimates, may subject liability, our reputation may harmed, and marketers and developers may less willing allocate their budgets resources our products that deliver impressions, which could negatively affect our business and financial results. cannot assure you that will effectively manage our scale. Our employee headcount and the scale and complexity our business have increased significantly over time. The scale our business and breadth our products create significant challenges for our management, operational, and financial resources, including managing multiple relationships with users, marketers, developers, and other third parties, and maintaining information technology systems and internal controls and procedures that support the scale and complexity our business. addition, some members our management not have significant experience managing large global business operation, our management may not able manage our scale effectively. effectively manage our scale, must maintain, and continue adapt, our operational, financial, and management processes and systems, manage our headcount and facilities, and effectively train and manage our personnel. Many our personnel work remotely, which may lead challenges productivity and collaboration. addition, from time time, implement organizational changes pursue greater efficiency and realign our business and strategic priorities. For example, and , announced several initiatives, including restructurings, employee layoffs, and measures scale down our office facilities, but cannot guarantee that they will achieve our intended results. These efforts also subject risks such greater than anticipated costs, adverse effects employee retention, and increased difficulty managing the scale and complexity our business. For example, could face delays challenges with product development, other business and strategic initiatives, legal and regulatory compliance, well other disruptions our operations. our organization continues evolve, and are required implement and adapt complex organizational management structures, may find difficult maintain the benefits our corporate culture, including our ability quickly develop and launch new and innovative products. Any these developments could negatively affect our business, reputation, financial results. have significant international operations, which subject increased business, economic, and legal risks that could affect our financial results. have significant international operations. currently make Facebook available more than different languages, and have offices data centers approximately different countries. may enter new international regions where have limited experience marketing, selling, and deploying our products. Our products are generally available globally, but some all our products functionality may not available certain regions due legal and regulatory complexities. For example, several our products are not generally available China. also outsource certain operational functions third parties globally. fail deploy, manage, oversee our international operations successfully, our business may suffer. addition, are subject variety risks inherent doing business internationally, including: • political, social, economic instability; • risks related legal, regulatory, and other government scrutiny applicable . companies with sales and operations foreign jurisdictions, including with respect privacy, tax, law enforcement, content, trade compliance, supply chain, competition, consumer protection, intellectual property, environmental, health and safety, licensing, and infrastructure matters; • potential damage our brand and reputation due compliance with local laws, including potential censorship requirements provide user information local authorities; • enhanced difficulty reviewing content our platform and enforcing our community standards across different languages and countries; • fluctuations currency exchange rates and compliance with currency controls; • foreign exchange controls and tax and other regulations and orders that might prevent from repatriating cash earned countries outside the United States otherwise limit our ability move cash freely, and impede our ability invest such cash efficiently; • higher levels credit risk and payment fraud; • enhanced difficulties integrating any foreign acquisitions; • burdens complying with variety foreign laws, including laws related taxation, content removal, content moderation, data localization, data protection, competition, -commerce and payments, and regulatory oversight; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights some countries; • difficulties staffing, managing, and overseeing global operations and the increased travel, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations, including difficulties arising from personnel working remotely; • compliance with statutory equity requirements and management tax consequences; and • geopolitical events affecting , our marketers our industry, including trade disputes, armed conflicts, and pandemics. addition, must manage the potential conflicts between locally accepted business practices any given jurisdiction and our obligations comply with laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws regulations applicable , such the . Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the . Bribery Act . also must manage our obligations comply with laws and regulations related import and export controls, trade restrictions, and sanctions, including regulations established the . Office Foreign Assets Control. Government agencies and authorities have broad range civil and criminal penalties they may seek impose against companies for violations anti-corruption laws regulations, import and export controls, trade restrictions, sanctions, and other laws, rules, and regulations. are unable expand internationally and manage the complexity our global operations successfully, our financial results could adversely affected. also may required elect cease modify our operations the offering our products and services certain regions, including result the risks described above, which could adversely affect our business, user growth and engagement, and financial results. face design, manufacturing, and supply chain risks with respect our consumer hardware products that, not properly managed, could adversely impact our financial results. face number risks related design, manufacturing, and supply chain management with respect our consumer hardware products. For example, the consumer hardware products sell from time time have had, and the future may have, quality issues resulting from the design manufacture the products, from the software used the products. Sometimes, these issues may caused components purchase from other manufacturers suppliers. Our brand and financial results could adversely affected any such quality issues, other failures meet our customers\' expectations, findings our consumer hardware products defective. rely third parties manufacture and manage the logistics transporting and distributing our consumer hardware products, which subjects number risks. The manufacturing our consumer hardware products depends small number third parties, often with significant operations single region such Asia. have experienced, and may the future experience, supply labor shortages other disruptions logistics and the supply chain, which could result shipping delays and negatively impact our operations, product development, and sales. could negatively affected are not able engage third parties with the necessary capabilities capacity reasonable terms, those engage with fail meet their obligations (whether due financial difficulties, manufacturing supply constraints, other reasons), make adverse changes the pricing other material terms such arrangements with them. The manufacturing, distribution, and sale our consumer hardware products also may negatively impacted macroeconomic conditions, geopolitical challenges, trade disputes, other actions governments (including international conflicts that could result tariffs, sanctions, export controls, and other measures that restrict international trade) that subject supply shortages, increased costs, supply chain logistics disruptions. also require the suppliers and business partners our consumer hardware products comply with laws and certain company policies regarding sourcing practices and standards labor, trade compliance, health and safety, the environment, and business ethics, but not control them their practices and standards. any them violates laws, fails implement changes accordance with newly enacted laws, implements practices standards regarded unethical, corrupt, non-compliant, could experience supply chain disruptions, government action fines, canceled orders, damage our reputation. face inventory risk with respect our consumer hardware products. are exposed inventory risks with respect our consumer hardware products result rapid changes product cycles and pricing, unsafe defective merchandise, supply chain disruptions, changes consumer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes consumer tastes with respect our consumer hardware products, and other factors. The demand for our products can also change significantly between the time inventory components are ordered and the date sale. While endeavor accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking understocking consumer hardware products may sell, from time time have experienced difficulties accurately predicting and meeting the consumer demand for our products. addition, when begin selling manufacturing new consumer hardware product enter new international regions, may difficult establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition certain types inventory components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not returnable. Any one the foregoing factors may adversely affect our operating results. plan continue make acquisitions and pursue other strategic transactions, which could impact our financial condition results operations and may adversely affect the price our common stock. part our business strategy, have made and intend continue make acquisitions add specialized employees and complementary companies, products, technologies, and from time time may enter into other strategic transactions such investments and joint ventures. may not able find suitable acquisition candidates, and may not able complete acquisitions other strategic transactions favorable terms, all, including result regulatory challenges. For example, completed our divestiture Giphy following the United Kingdom Competition and Markets Authority\' order directing divest Giphy post-acquisition. addition, although were able successfully complete the acquisition after prevailing federal court, the FTC sought enjoin our proposed acquisition Within Unlimited. some cases, the costs such acquisitions other strategic transactions may substantial, and there assurance that will realize expected synergies and potential monetization opportunities for our acquisitions favorable return investment for our strategic investments. may pay substantial amounts cash incur debt pay for acquisitions other strategic transactions, which has occurred the past and could adversely affect our liquidity. The incurrence indebtedness also results increased fixed obligations and increased interest expense, and could also include covenants other restrictions that would impede our ability manage our operations. may also issue equity securities pay for acquisitions and regularly grant restricted stock units retain the employees acquired companies, which could increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial results, and result dilution our stockholders. addition, any acquisitions other strategic transactions announce could viewed negatively users, marketers, developers, investors, which may adversely affect our business the price our Class common stock. may also discover liabilities, deficiencies, other claims associated with the companies assets acquire that were not identified advance, which may result significant unanticipated costs. The effectiveness our due diligence review and our ability evaluate the results such due diligence are dependent upon the accuracy and completeness statements and disclosures made actions taken the companies acquire their representatives, well the limited amount time which acquisitions are executed. addition, may fail accurately forecast the financial impact acquisition other strategic transaction, including tax and accounting charges. Acquisitions other strategic transactions may also result our recording significant additional expenses our results operations and recording substantial finite-lived intangible assets our balance sheet upon closing. Any these factors may adversely affect our financial condition results operations. may not able successfully integrate our acquisitions, and incur significant costs integrate and support the companies acquire. The integration acquisitions requires significant time and resources, particularly with respect companies that have significant operations that develop products where not have prior experience, and may not manage these processes successfully. have made, and may the future make, substantial investments resources support our acquisitions, which can result significant ongoing operating expenses and the diversion resources and management attention from other areas our business. cannot assure you that these investments will successful. fail successfully integrate the companies acquire, may not realize the benefits expected from the transaction and our business may harmed. are involved numerous class action lawsuits and other litigation matters that are expensive and time consuming, and, resolved adversely, could harm our business, financial condition, results operations. are involved numerous lawsuits, including stockholder derivative lawsuits and putative class action lawsuits, many which claim statutory damages and seek significant changes our business operations, and anticipate that will continue target for numerous lawsuits the future. Because the scale our user, advertiser, and developer base, the plaintiffs class action cases filed against typically claim enormous monetary damages even the alleged per-user entity harm small non-existent. addition, have faced, currently face, and will continue face additional class action and other lawsuits based claims related advertising, antitrust, privacy, security, biometrics, content, algorithms, copyright, user well-being, employment, contingent workers, activities our platform, consumer protection, product performance other claims related the use consumer hardware and software, including virtual reality technology and products, which are new and unproven. For example, are currently the subject multiple putative class action suits connection with our platform and user data practices and the misuse certain data developer that shared such data with third parties violation our terms and policies; the disclosure our earnings results for the second quarter ; our acquisitions Instagram and WhatsApp, well other alleged anticompetitive conduct; former employee\' allegations and release internal company documents beginning September ; the disclosure our earnings results for the fourth quarter ; and allegations that inflated our estimates the potential audience size for advertisements, resulting artificially increased demand and higher prices. are also the subject multiple lawsuits related our alleged use facial recognition technology, our alleged recommendation and failure remove harmful content, information from third-party websites apps via our business tools, our alleged use copyright-protected content train our models, and allegations that Facebook and Instagram cause "social media addiction" users and allegations violations the Children\' Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA). The results any such lawsuits and claims cannot predicted with certainty, and any negative outcome from any such lawsuits could result payments substantial monetary damages fines, undesirable changes our products business practices, and accordingly our business, financial condition, results operations could materially and adversely affected. There can assurances that favorable final outcome will obtained all our cases, and defending any lawsuit costly and can impose significant burden management and employees. Any litigation which are party may result onerous unfavorable judgment that may not reversed upon appeal payments substantial monetary damages fines, may decide settle lawsuits similarly unfavorable terms, which has occurred the past and which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results operations. may have exposure greater than anticipated tax liabilities. Our tax obligations, including income and non-income taxes, are based part our corporate operating structure and intercompany arrangements, including the manner which operate our business, develop, value, manage, protect, and use our intellectual property, and the valuations our intercompany transactions. The tax laws applicable our business, including the laws the United States and other jurisdictions, are subject interpretation and certain jurisdictions are aggressively interpreting their laws new ways effort raise additional tax revenue from companies such Meta. are subject regular review and audit . federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions have taken, including our methodologies for valuing developed technology intercompany arrangements, and any adverse outcome such review audit could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, increase the amount non-income taxes imposed our business, and harm our financial position, results operations, and cash flows. For example, and , the IRS issued formal assessments relating transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries conjunction with the examination the through tax years. Although disagree with the IRS\' position and are litigating this issue, the ultimate resolution uncertain and, resolved manner unfavorable , may adversely affect our financial results. The determination our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment management, and there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. Our provision for income taxes determined the manner which operate our business, and any changes such operations laws applicable such operations may affect our effective tax rate. Although believe that our provision for income taxes and estimates our non-income tax liabilities are reasonable, the ultimate settlement may differ from the amounts recorded our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results the period periods for which such determination made. Our future income tax rates could volatile and difficult predict due changes jurisdictional profit split, changes the amount and recognition deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws, regulations, accounting principles. Changes tax laws tax rulings could materially affect our financial position, results operations, and cash flows. The tax regimes are subject operate under, including income and non-income taxes, are unsettled and may subject significant change. Changes tax laws tax rulings, changes interpretations existing laws, could materially affect our financial position, results operations, and cash flows. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) enacted December had significant impact our tax obligations and effective tax rate for the fourth quarter . The issuance additional regulatory accounting guidance related the Tax Act, other executive Congressional actions the United States globally could materially increase our tax obligations and significantly impact our effective tax rate the period such guidance issued such actions take effect, and future periods. addition, many countries have recently proposed recommended changes existing tax laws have enacted new laws that could significantly increase our tax obligations many countries where business require change the manner which operate our business. Over the last several years, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project that, implemented, would change various aspects the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined many the countries which business. July , nearly countries have approved framework that imposes minimum tax rate %, among other provisions. this framework subject further negotiation and implementation each member country, the timing and ultimate impact any such changes our tax obligations are uncertain. Similarly, the European Commission and several countries have issued proposals that would apply various aspects the current tax framework under which are taxed. These proposals include changes the existing framework calculate income tax, well proposals change impose new types non-income taxes, including taxes based percentage revenue. For example, several jurisdictions have proposed enacted taxes applicable digital services, which include business activities digital advertising and online marketplaces, and which apply our business. The European Commission has conducted investigations multiple countries focusing whether local country tax rulings tax legislation provides preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules and concluded that certain member states, including Ireland, have provided illegal state aid certain cases. These investigations may result changes the tax treatment our foreign operations. Due the large and expanding scale our international business activities, many these types changes the taxation our activities described above could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, increase the amount non-income taxes imposed our business, and harm our financial position, results operations, and cash flows. Such changes may also apply retroactively our historical operations and result taxes greater than the amounts estimated and recorded our financial statements. Given our levels share-based compensation, our tax rate has the past varied, and may the future vary, significantly depending our stock price. The tax effects the accounting for share-based compensation have the past impacted, and may the future impact, our effective tax rate, sometimes significantly, from period period. periods which our stock price varies from the grant price the share-based compensation vesting that period, will recognize excess tax benefits shortfalls that will impact our effective tax rate. For example, , excess tax benefits recognized from share-based compensation decreased our provision for income taxes $ million and our effective income tax rate one percentage point compared the tax rate without such benefits. future periods which our stock price varies comparison the grant price the share-based compensation vesting that period, our effective tax rate may inversely impacted. The amount and value share-based compensation issued relative our earnings particular period will also affect the magnitude the impact share-based compensation our effective tax rate. These tax effects are dependent our stock price, which not control, and decline our stock price could significantly increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial results. our goodwill intangible assets become impaired, may required record significant charge earnings. review our intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable, such decline stock price and market capitalization. test goodwill for impairment the reporting unit level least annually. such goodwill intangible assets are deemed impaired, impairment loss equal the amount which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value the assets would recognized. may required record significant charge our financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill intangible assets determined, which would negatively affect our results operations. The loss one more our key personnel, our failure attract and retain other highly qualified personnel the future, could harm our business. currently depend the continued services and performance our key personnel, including Mark Zuckerberg. . Zuckerberg and certain other members management participate various high-risk activities, such combat sports, extreme sports, and recreational aviation, which carry the risk serious injury and death. . Zuckerberg were become unavailable for any reason, there could material adverse impact our operations. The loss other key personnel, including members management well key engineering, product development, marketing, and sales personnel, could also disrupt our operations and have adverse effect our business. addition, cannot guarantee will continue attract and retain the personnel need maintain our competitive position. particular, expect continue face significant challenges hiring specialized technical personnel, particularly senior engineering talent, whether result competition with other companies other factors. continue mature, the incentives attract, retain, and motivate employees provided our equity awards future arrangements may not effective the past, and issue significant equity attract additional employees retain our existing employees, would incur substantial additional share-based compensation expense and the ownership our existing stockholders would further diluted. Our ability attract, retain, and motivate employees may also adversely affected stock price volatility. addition, restrictive immigration policies legal regulatory developments relating immigration may negatively affect our efforts attract and hire new personnel well retain our existing personnel . not succeed attracting, hiring, and integrating excellent personnel, retaining and motivating existing personnel, may unable grow effectively. Our CEO has control over key decision making result his control majority the voting power our outstanding capital stock. Mark Zuckerberg, our founder, Board Chair, and CEO, able exercise voting rights with respect majority the voting power our outstanding capital stock and therefore has the ability control the outcome all matters submitted our stockholders for approval, including the election directors and any merger, consolidation, sale all substantially all our assets. This concentrated control could delay, defer, prevent change control, merger, consolidation, sale all substantially all our assets that our other stockholders support, conversely this concentrated control could result the consummation such transaction that our other stockholders not support. This concentrated control could also discourage potential investor from acquiring our Class common stock, which has limited voting power relative the Class common stock, and might harm the trading price our Class common stock. addition, . Zuckerberg has the ability control the management and major strategic investments our company result his position our CEO and his ability control the election , some cases, the replacement our directors. the event his death, the shares our capital stock that . Zuckerberg owns will transferred the persons entities that has designated. board member and officer, . Zuckerberg owes fiduciary duty our stockholders and must act good faith manner reasonably believes the best interests our stockholders. stockholder, even controlling stockholder, . Zuckerberg entitled vote his shares his own interests, which may not always the interests our stockholders generally. cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will fully consummated that will enhance long-term stockholder value. Share repurchases and dividend payments could also increase the volatility the trading price our stock and will diminish our cash reserves. Although our board directors has authorized share repurchase program that does not have expiration date, the program does not obligate repurchase any specific dollar amount acquire any specific number shares our Class common stock. The specific timing and amount any share repurchases, and the specific timing and amount any dividend payments, will depend prevailing share prices, general economic and market conditions, company performance, and other considerations. cannot guarantee that the repurchase program will fully consummated that will enhance long-term stockholder value. The repurchase program and dividend payments could affect the trading price our stock and increase volatility, and any announcement termination this repurchase program dividend payments may result decrease the trading price our stock. addition, this repurchase program and dividend payments will diminish our cash reserves. There can assurance that will continue declare cash dividends. February , , announced the initiation our first-ever quarterly cash dividend. The payment any cash dividends the future subject continued capital availability, market conditions, applicable laws and agreements, and our board directors continuing determine that the declaration dividends are the best interests our stockholders. The declaration and payment any dividend may discontinued reduced any time, and there can assurance that will declare cash dividends the future any particular amounts, all. Risks Related Government Regulation and Enforcement Actions governments that restrict access Facebook our other products their countries, censor moderate content our products their countries, otherwise impair our ability sell advertising their countries, could substantially harm our business and financial results. Governments from time time seek censor moderate content available Facebook our other products their country, restrict access our products from their country partially entirely, impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility our products their country for extended period time indefinitely. For example, user access Facebook and certain our other products has been currently restricted whole part China, Iran, and North Korea. addition, government authorities other countries may seek restrict user access our products they consider violation their laws threat public safety for other reasons, and certain our products have been restricted governments other countries from time time. For example, , Hong Kong adopted National Security Law that provides authorities with the ability obtain information, remove and block access content, and suspend user services, and are found violation this law then the use our products may restricted. Hong Kong also expected pass additional national security legislation . addition, are required elect make changes our marketing and sales other operations Hong Kong result the National Security Law other legislation, our revenue and business the region will adversely affected. addition, connection with the war Ukraine the first quarter , access Facebook and Instagram was restricted Russia and the services were then prohibited the Russian government, which has adversely affected, and will likely continue adversely affect, our revenue and business the region. also possible that government authorities could take action that impairs our ability sell advertising, including countries where access our consumer-facing products may blocked restricted. For example, generate meaningful revenue from small number resellers serving advertisers based China, and possible that the Chinese government could take action that reduces eliminates our China-based advertising revenue, whether result the trade dispute with the United States, response content issues information requests Hong Kong elsewhere, for other reasons, take other action against , such imposing taxes other penalties, which could adversely affect our financial results. Similarly, are found out compliance with certain legal requirements for companies Turkey, the Turkish government could take action reduce eliminate our Turkey-based advertising revenue otherwise adversely impact access our products. the event that content shown Facebook our other products subject censorship, access our products restricted, whole part, one more countries, are required elect make changes our operations, other restrictions are imposed our products, our competitors are able successfully penetrate new geographic markets capture greater share existing geographic markets that cannot access where face other restrictions, our ability retain increase our user base, user engagement, the level advertising marketers may adversely affected, may not able maintain grow our revenue anticipated, and our financial results could adversely affected. Our business subject complex and evolving . and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data use and data protection, content, competition, safety and consumer protection, -commerce, and other matters. Many these laws and regulations are subject change and uncertain interpretation, and could result claims, changes our products and business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost operations, declines user growth engagement, otherwise harm our business. are subject variety laws and regulations the United States and abroad that involve matters central our business, including privacy, data use, data protection and personal information, the provision our services younger users, biometrics, encryption, rights publicity, content, integrity, intellectual property, advertising, marketing, distribution, data security, data retention and deletion, data localization and storage, data disclosure, and machine learning, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection minors, consumer protection, civil rights, accessibility, telecommunications, product liability, -commerce, taxation, economic other trade controls including sanctions, anti-corruption and political law compliance, securities law compliance, and online payment services. The introduction new products, expansion our activities certain jurisdictions, other actions that may take may subject additional laws, regulations, other government scrutiny. addition, foreign data protection, privacy, content, competition, consumer protection, and other laws and regulations can impose different obligations more restrictive than those the United States, and create the potential for significant fines imposed. These . federal and state, , and other international laws and regulations, which some cases can enforced private parties addition government entities, are constantly evolving and can subject significant change. result, the application, interpretation, and enforcement these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly the new and rapidly evolving industry which operate, and may interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction jurisdiction and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. For example, regulatory legislative actions litigation concerning the manner which display content our users, moderate content, provide our services younger users, are able use data various ways, including for advertising, could adversely affect user growth and engagement. Such actions could affect the manner which provide our services adversely affect our financial results, including imposing significant fines that increasingly may calculated based global revenue. are also subject evolving laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances can transfer, process receive certain data that critical our operations, including data shared between countries regions which operate and data shared among our products and services. For example, , the European Union and United States agreed transfer framework for data transferred from the European Union the United States, called the Privacy Shield, but the Privacy Shield was invalidated July the Court Justice the European Union (CJEU). addition, the other bases upon which Meta relies transfer such data, such Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs), have been subjected regulatory and judicial scrutiny. For example, the CJEU considered the validity SCCs basis transfer user data from the European Union the United States following challenge brought the Irish Data Protection Commission (IDPC). Although the CJEU upheld the validity SCCs July , May , , the IDPC issued Final Decision concluding that Meta Platforms Ireland\' reliance SCCs respect certain transfers European Economic Area (EEA) Facebook user data was not compliance with the GDPR. The IDPC issued administrative fine EUR € billion well corrective orders requiring Meta Platforms Ireland suspend the relevant transfers and bring its processing operations into compliance with Chapter GDPR ceasing the unlawful processing, including storage, such data the United States. are appealing this decision and the corrective orders are currently subject interim stay from the Irish High Court. March , , the European Union and United States announced that they had reached agreement principle new - . Data Privacy Framework ( - . DPF). October , , President Biden signed the Executive Order Enhancing Safeguards for United States Signals Intelligence Activities ( .), and June , , the European Union and the three additional countries making the EEA were designated the United States Attorney General "qualifying state" under Section ( ) the . July , , the European Commission adopted adequacy decision relation the United States. The adequacy decision concludes that the United States ensures adequate level protection for personal data transferred from the European Union organizations the United States that are included the "Data Privacy Framework List," maintained and made publicly available the United States Department Commerce pursuant the - . DPF. The implementation the - . DPF and the adequacy decision are important and welcome milestones, and are implementing steps comply with the above corrective orders following engagement with the IDPC. are required take additional steps comply with the corrective orders, this could increase the cost and complexity delivering our products and services Europe. Furthermore, the - . DPF replaces two prior adequacy frameworks which were invalidated the CJEU. further invalidation the - . DPF the CJEU could create considerable uncertainty and lead being unable offer number our most significant products and services, including Facebook and Instagram, Europe, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results operations. have been subject other significant legislative and regulatory developments, which together with proposed new legislation and regulations could significantly affect our business the future. For example, have implemented number product changes and controls result requirements under the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and may implement additional changes the future. The GDPR also requires submission personal data breach notifications our lead European Union privacy regulator, the IDPC, and includes significant penalties for non-compliance with the notification obligation well other requirements the regulation. The interpretation the GDPR still evolving, including through decisions the CJEU, and draft decisions investigations the IDPC are subject review other European privacy regulators part the GDPR\' consistency mechanism, which may lead significant changes the final outcome such investigations. result, the interpretation and enforcement the GDPR, well the imposition and amount penalties for non-compliance, are subject significant uncertainty, and evolves, could potentially have negative impact our business and our operations. addition, Brazil, the United Kingdom, and other countries have enacted similar data protection regulations imposing data privacy-related requirements products and services offered users their respective jurisdictions. The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), amended the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), also establishes certain transparency rules and creates certain data privacy rights for users, including limitations our use certain sensitive personal information and more ability for users control the purposes for which their data shared with third parties. Other states have proposed enacted similar comprehensive privacy laws that afford users with similar data privacy rights and controls. These laws and regulations are evolving and subject interpretation, and resulting limitations our advertising services, reductions advertising marketers, have some extent adversely affected, and will continue adversely affect, our advertising business. Some states have also proposed enacted laws specifically focused the privacy rights and controls for users under years old and their parents guardians. Like comprehensive privacy laws, these laws are evolving and subject interpretation, and may restrict our ability offer certain products and services provided all certain cohorts users those states, adversely affecting our advertising business. Europe, regulators continue enforce guidance concerning the ePrivacy Directive\' requirements regarding the use cookies and similar technologies, and may impose specific measures the future which could directly impact our use such technologies. addition, the ePrivacy Directive and national implementation laws impose additional limitations the use data across messaging products and include significant penalties for non-compliance. Changes our products business practices result these similar developments have adversely affected, and may the future adversely affect, our advertising business. For example, response regulatory developments Europe, announced plans change the legal basis for behavioral advertising Facebook and Instagram the , EEA, and Switzerland from "legitimate interests" "consent," and November began offering users the region "subscription for ads" alternative. are continuing engage with regulators our new consent model, including regarding compliance with requirements under the GDPR, DMA, and consumer laws. These any similar developments the future may negatively impact our user growth and engagement, revenue, and financial results. Similarly, there are number legislative proposals recently enacted laws the European Union, the United States, both the federal and state level, well other jurisdictions that could impose new obligations limitations areas affecting our business. For example, the DMA the European Union imposes restrictions and requirements companies like ours, including areas such the combination data across services, mergers and acquisitions, and product design. The DMA also includes significant penalties for non-compliance, and its key requirements will enforceable against designated gatekeeper companies beginning March . The DMA has caused, and may the future cause, incur significant compliance costs and make changes our products business practices. The requirements under the DMA will likely subject further interpretation and regulatory engagement. Pending future proposals modify competition laws the United States and other jurisdictions could have similar effects. Further, the Digital Services Act (DSA) the European Union, which started apply our business August , imposes certain restrictions and requirements for our products and services and subjects increased compliance costs. The DSA also includes significant penalties for non-compliance. addition, some countries, such India and Turkey, are considering have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements, new competition requirements, requiring local storage and processing data similar requirements that could require substantial changes our products, increase the cost and complexity delivering our services, cause cease the offering our products and services certain countries, and result fines other penalties. New legislation regulatory decisions that restrict our ability collect and use information about minors may also result limitations our advertising services our ability offer products and services minors certain jurisdictions. These laws and regulations, well any associated claims, inquiries, investigations any government actions, have led , and may the future lead , unfavorable outcomes including increased compliance costs, loss revenue, delays impediments the development new products, negative publicity and reputational harm, increased operating costs, diversion management time and attention, and remedies that harm our business, including fines demands orders that modify cease existing business practices. have been subject regulatory and other government investigations, enforcement actions, and settlements, and expect continue subject such proceedings and other inquiries the future, which could cause incur substantial costs require change our business practices manner materially adverse our business. receive formal and informal inquiries from government authorities and regulators regarding our compliance with laws and regulations, many which are evolving and subject interpretation. are and expect continue the subject investigations, inquiries, data requests, requests for information, actions, and audits the United States, Europe, and around the world, particularly the areas privacy, data use and data protection, including with respect processing sensitive data, data from third parties, data for advertising purposes, data security, minors, safety, law enforcement, consumer protection, civil rights, content moderation, use our platform for illegal, illicit, otherwise objectionable activity, competition, , and machine learning. addition, are currently, and may the future , subject regulatory orders consent decrees. For example, data protection, competition, and consumer protection authorities the European Union, United States, and other jurisdictions have initiated actions, investigations, administrative orders seeking restrict the ways which collect and use information, impose sanctions, and other authorities may the same. addition, have been and continue the subject litigation and investigations related the ways which collect and use information, including where advertisers are subject additional regulation such housing, employment, credit, and financial services. addition, beginning March , became subject FTC, state attorneys general, and other government inquiries the United States, Europe, and other jurisdictions connection with our platform and user data practices well the misuse certain data developer that shared such data with third parties violation our terms and policies. July , entered into settlement and modified consent order resolve the FTC inquiry, which took effect April and, among other things, required significantly enhance our practices and processes for privacy compliance and oversight. The state attorneys general inquiry and certain government inquiries other jurisdictions remain ongoing. The FTC also continues monitor and our compliance with the modified consent order and initiated administrative proceeding against , which are challenging, that alleges deficient compliance and violations the Children\' Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), the COPPA Rule, and Section the Federal Trade Commission Act and seeks changes our business. are unsuccessful our challenge the FTC\' action and the agency imposes its proposed order its current form, would subject significant limitations, including our ability launch new and modified products use data users under years old. also notify the IDPC, our lead European Union privacy regulator under the GDPR, and other regulators certain other personal data breaches and privacy issues, and are subject inquiries and investigations the IDPC and other regulators regarding various aspects our regulatory compliance. have been, and may the future , subject penalties, fines, and requirements change our business practices result such inquiries and investigations. addition, are subject lawsuit the state Texas connection with the "tag suggestions" feature and other uses facial recognition technology. are also subject various litigation and formal and informal inquiries and investigations competition authorities the United States, Europe, and other jurisdictions, which relate many aspects our business, including with respect users and advertisers. Such inquiries, investigations, and lawsuits concern, among other things, our business practices the areas social networking social media services, messaging services, digital advertising, and mobile online applications, well our acquisitions. For example, beginning , became the subject antitrust inquiries and investigations the FTC and the . Department Justice. Beginning , became subject lawsuit the FTC alleging that violated antitrust laws, including acquiring Instagram and WhatsApp . The complaint seeks permanent injunction against our company\' alleged violations the antitrust laws, and other equitable relief, including divestiture reconstruction Instagram and WhatsApp. addition, December , the European Commission issued Statement Objections alleging that tie Facebook Marketplace Facebook and use data manner that infringes European Union competition rules. are also subject other government inquiries and investigations relating our business activities and disclosure practices. For example, beginning September , became subject government investigations and requests relating allegations and the release internal company documents former employee. Orders issued , inquiries enforcement actions initiated , government regulatory authorities could cause incur substantial costs, expose civil and criminal liability (including liability for our personnel) penalties (including substantial monetary remedies), interrupt require change our business practices manner materially adverse our business (including changes our products user data practices), result negative publicity and reputational harm, divert resources and the time and attention management from our business, subject other structural behavioral remedies that adversely affect our business, and have experienced some these adverse effects varying degrees from time time. Compliance with our FTC consent order, the GDPR, the CCPA, amended the CPRA, the ePrivacy Directive, the DMA, the DSA, and other regulatory and legislative privacy requirements require significant operational resources and modifications our business practices, and any compliance failures may have material adverse effect our business, reputation, and financial results. are engaged ongoing privacy compliance and oversight efforts, including connection with our modified consent order with the FTC, requirements the GDPR, and other current and anticipated regulatory and legislative requirements around the world, such the CCPA, amended the CPRA, ePrivacy Directive, DMA, DSA, the Korean Personal Information Protection Act, and the Indian Digital Personal Data Protection Act. particular, are maintaining comprehensive privacy program connection with the FTC consent order that includes substantial management and board directors oversight, stringent operational requirements and reporting obligations, prohibitions against making misrepresentations relating user data, process regularly certify our compliance with the privacy program the FTC, and regular assessments our privacy program independent third-party assessor, which has been and will continue challenging and costly maintain and enhance. These compliance and oversight efforts are increasing demand our systems and resources, and require significant new and ongoing investments, including investments compliance processes, personnel, and technical infrastructure. continually reallocate resources internally assist with these efforts, and this has had, and will continue have, adverse impact our other business initiatives. addition, these efforts require substantial modifications our business practices and make some practices such product and ads development more difficult, time-consuming, and costly. result, believe our ability develop and launch new features, products, and services timely manner has been and will continue adversely affected. Further, our privacy compliance and oversight efforts have required, and expect will continue require, significant time and attention from our management and board directors. The requirements the FTC consent order and other privacy-related laws and regulations are complex and apply broadly our business, and from time time notify relevant authorities instances where are not full compliance with these requirements otherwise discover privacy issues, and expect continue any such issues arise the future. addition, regulatory and legislative privacy requirements are constantly evolving and can subject significant change and uncertain interpretation. For example, are subject restrictions and requirements under the DMA, including areas such the combination data across services and product design, which will likely subject further interpretation and regulatory engagement. The FTC initiated administrative proceeding against alleging, among other things, deficient compliance with the FTC consent order and seeking substantial modifications the requirements the consent order, including prohibition our use minors\' data for any commercial purposes, changes the composition our board directors, and significant limitations our ability modify and launch new products. are challenging the FTC\' administrative proceeding. the challenge unsuccessful and the FTC able impose the proposed order its current form, would limit our ability provide certain features and services, engage certain business practices, require further increase the time, resources, and costs spend compliance and oversight efforts, and would adversely affect our business and financial results. are unable successfully implement and comply with the mandates the FTC consent order (including any future modifications the order), GDPR, . state privacy laws, including the CCPA, ePrivacy Directive, DMA, DSA, other regulatory legislative requirements, any relevant authority believes that are violation the consent order other applicable requirements, may subject regulatory governmental investigations lawsuits, which may result significant monetary fines, judgments, penalties, other remedies, and may also required make additional changes our business practices. Any these events could have material adverse effect our business, reputation, and financial results. may incur liability result information retrieved from transmitted over the internet published using our products result claims related our products, and legislation regulating content our platform may require change our products business practices and may adversely affect our business and financial results. have faced, currently face, and will continue face claims and government inquiries relating information content that published made available our products, including claims, inquiries, and investigations relating our policies, algorithms, and enforcement actions with respect such information content. particular, the nature our business exposes claims related defamation, dissemination misinformation news hoaxes, deceptive and fraudulent advertising, discrimination, harassment, intellectual property rights, rights publicity and privacy, personal injury torts, laws regulating hate speech other types content, - offline safety and well-being (such acts violence, terrorism, improper promotion distribution pharmaceuticals and illicit drugs, human exploitation, child exploitation, illegal gaming, and other fraudulent otherwise illegal activity), products liability, consumer protection, and breach contract, among others. For example, have recently seen increase claims brought younger users related well-being issues based allegedly harmful content that shared recommended our products. addition, have been subject litigation alleging that our targeting and delivery practices constitute violations anti-discrimination laws. The potential risks relating any the foregoing types claims are currently enhanced certain jurisdictions outside the United States where our protection from liability for third-party actions may unclear where may less protected under local laws than are the United States. For example, April , the European Union passed directive (the European Copyright Directive) expanding online platform liability for copyright infringement and regulating certain uses news content online, which most member states have already implemented into their national laws. addition, the European Union revised the European Audiovisual Media Service Directive apply online video-sharing platforms, which member states are implementing. the United States, , the . Supreme Court heard oral argument matter which the scope the protections available online platforms under Section the Communications Decency Act (Section ) was issue, but ultimately declined address Section its decision. There also have been, and continue , various other litigation concerning, and state and federal legislative and executive efforts remove restrict, the scope the protections under Section , well impose new obligations online platforms with respect commerce listings, user access and content, counterfeit goods and copyright-infringing material, and our current protections from liability for third-party content the United States could decrease change. could incur significant costs investigating and defending such claims and, are found liable, significant damages. could also face fines, orders restricting blocking our services particular geographies, other judicial government-imposed remedies result content hosted our services. For example, legislation Germany and India has resulted, and may result the future, the imposition fines other penalties for failure comply with certain content removal, law enforcement cooperation, and disclosure obligations. Numerous other countries Europe, the Middle East, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America are considering have implemented similar legislation imposing liability potentially significant penalties, including fines, service throttling, advertising bans, for failure remove certain types content follow certain processes. For example, have been subject fines and may the future subject other penalties connection with social media legislation Turkey, and have been subject fines and service blocking and prohibition Russia. Content-related legislation also has required , and may require the future, change our products business practices, increase our costs, otherwise impact our operations our ability provide services certain geographies. For example, the European Copyright Directive requires certain online services obtain authorizations for copyrighted content implement measures prevent the availability that content, which may require make substantial investments compliance processes. Member states\' laws implementing the European Copyright Directive may also require online platforms pay for content. addition, our products and services are subject restrictions and requirements, and are subject increased compliance costs, result the Digital Services Act the European Union, which started apply our business August , and other content-related legislative developments such the Online Safety and Media Regulation Act Ireland and the Online Safety Act the United Kingdom. Certain countries have also implemented proposed legislation that may require pay publishers for certain news content shared our products. For example, result such legislation Canada, have removed the availability news content for Canadian users Facebook and Instagram. the United States, changes the protections available under Section the First Amendment the . Constitution new state federal content-related legislation may increase our costs require significant changes our products, business practices, operations, which could adversely affect user growth and engagement. Any the foregoing events could adversely affect our business and financial results. Payment-related activities may subject additional regulatory requirements, regulatory actions, and other risks that could costly and difficult comply with that could harm our business. Several our products offer Payments functionality, including enabling our users purchase tangible, virtual, and digital goods from merchants and developers that offer applications using our Payments infrastructure, send money other users, and make donations certain charitable organizations, among other activities. are subject variety laws and regulations the United States, Europe, and elsewhere, including those governing anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing, money transmission, stored value, gift cards and other prepaid access instruments, electronic funds transfer, virtual currency, consumer protection, charitable fundraising, economic sanctions, and import and export restrictions. addition, could become subject new consumer protection laws and regulations that may adopted amended, including those related payments activity well sharing, collection, and use payments-related data. Depending how our Payments products evolve, may also subject other laws and regulations including those governing gambling, banking, and lending. some jurisdictions, the application interpretation these laws and regulations not clear. have received certain payments licenses the United States, the European Economic Area, and other jurisdictions for our regulated Payments-related products and activities. These licenses increase flexibility how our use Payments may evolve, help mitigate regulatory uncertainty, and will generally require demonstrate compliance with many domestic and foreign laws relation our regulated Payments products and activities. Our efforts comply with these laws and regulations could costly and result diversion management time and attention and may still not guarantee compliance. the event that are found violation any such legal regulatory requirements, may subject monetary fines other penalties such cease and desist order, may required make product changes, any which could have adverse effect our business and financial results. addition, are subject variety additional risks result Payments transactions, including: increased costs and diversion management time and attention and other resources address bad transactions customer disputes; potential fraudulent otherwise illegal activity users, developers, employees, third parties; restrictions the investment consumer funds used transact Payments; and additional disclosure and reporting requirements. have also launched payments functionality certain our applications and may the future undertake additional payments initiatives, including part our metaverse efforts, which may subject many the foregoing risks and additional licensing requirements. Risks Related Data, Security, Platform Integrity, and Intellectual Property Security breaches, improper access disclosure our data user data, other hacking and phishing attacks our systems, other cyber incidents could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our industry prone cyber-attacks third parties seeking unauthorized access our data users\' data disrupt our ability provide service. Our products and services involve the collection, storage, processing, and transmission large amount data. Any failure prevent mitigate security breaches and improper access disclosure our data user data, including personal information, content, payment information from users, information from marketers, could result the loss, modification, disclosure, destruction, other misuse such data, which could harm our business and reputation and diminish our competitive position. addition, computer malware, viruses, social engineering (such spear phishing attacks), scraping, and general hacking continue prevalent our industry, have occurred our systems, and will occur our systems the future. also regularly encounter attempts create false undesirable user accounts, purchase ads, take other actions our platform for purposes such spamming, spreading misinformation, other illegal, illicit, otherwise objectionable ends. result our prominence, the size our user base, the types and volume personal data and content our systems, and the evolving nature our products and services (including our efforts involving new and emerging technologies), believe that are particularly attractive target for such breaches and attacks, including from nation states and highly sophisticated, state-sponsored, otherwise well-funded actors, and experience heightened risk from time time result geopolitical events. Our efforts address undesirable activity our platform also increase the risk retaliatory attacks. Such breaches and attacks may cause interruptions the services provide, degrade the user experience otherwise adversely affect users, cause users marketers lose confidence and trust our products, impair our internal systems, result financial harm . Our efforts protect our company data the information receive, and disable undesirable activities our platform, may also unsuccessful due software bugs other technical malfunctions; employee, contractor, vendor error malfeasance, including social engineering other cyber-attacks directed towards our personnel, misuse company data systems our personnel, well defects vulnerabilities our vendors\' information technology systems offerings; government surveillance; breaches physical security our facilities, technical infrastructure, other equipment; other threats that evolve. addition, third parties may attempt fraudulently induce employees users disclose information order gain access our data our users\' data. Cyber-attacks continue evolve sophistication and volume, and inherently may difficult detect for long periods time. Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect our data and user data, reduce the risk data loss misuse, disable undesirable accounts and activities our platform, and reduce the risk detect security breaches, such measures will not provide absolute security, and cannot assure you that will able react timely manner any cyber-attacks other security incidents, that our remediation efforts will successful. Our business and operations span numerous geographies around the world and involve thousands employees, contractors, vendors, developers, partners, and other third parties. any given time, face known and unknown cybersecurity risks and threats that are not fully mitigated, and discover vulnerabilities our security efforts. addition, some our developers other partners, such those that help measure the effectiveness ads, may receive store information provided our users through mobile web applications integrated with our products. provide limited information such third parties based the scope services provided . However, these third parties developers fail adopt adhere adequate data security practices, the event breach their networks, our data our users\' data may improperly accessed, used, disclosed. regularly experience such cyber-attacks and other security incidents varying degrees, and incur significant costs protecting against remediating such incidents. addition, are subject variety laws and regulations the United States and abroad relating cybersecurity and data protection, well obligations under our modified consent order with the FTC. result, affected users government authorities could initiate legal regulatory actions against connection with any actual perceived security breaches improper access disclosure data, which has occurred the past and which could cause incur significant expense and liability result orders consent decrees forcing modify our business practices. Such incidents our efforts remediate such incidents may also result decline our active user base engagement levels. Any these events could have material and adverse effect our business, reputation, financial results. For example, September , announced our discovery third-party cyber-attack that exploited vulnerability Facebook\' code steal user access tokens, which were then used access certain profile information from approximately million user accounts Facebook. The events surrounding this cyber-attack became the subject Irish Data Protection Commission and other government inquiries. Any such inquiries could subject substantial fines and costs, require change our business practices, divert resources and the attention management from our business, adversely affect our business. Intentional misuse our services and user data and other undesirable activity third parties our platform could adversely affect our business. have experienced, and expect continue experience, intentional misuse our services and user data third parties, well other undesirable, illicit, high-risk activity our platform. are making significant investments privacy, safety, security, and content review efforts combat these activities, including investigations and audits platform applications, well other enforcement efforts. have discovered and announced, and anticipate that will continue discover and announce, additional incidents misuse user data other undesirable illicit activity third parties. will not discover all such incidents activity, whether result our data technical limitations, including our lack visibility over our encrypted services, the scale activity our platform, the allocation resources other projects, other factors, and may notified such incidents activity the independent privacy assessor required under our modified consent order with the FTC, government authorities, the media, other third parties. Such incidents and activities include the use user data our systems manner inconsistent with our terms, contracts policies, the existence false undesirable user accounts, election interference, improper advertising practices, activities that threaten people\' safety well-being - offline (such acts violence, terrorism, improper promotion distribution pharmaceuticals and illicit drugs, human exploitation, child exploitation, and illegal gaming), instances spamming, surveillance, scraping, data harvesting, unsecured datasets, spreading misinformation, other fraudulent otherwise illegal activity. may also unsuccessful our efforts enforce our policies otherwise prevent remediate any such incidents. Consequences any the foregoing developments include negative effects user trust and engagement, harm our reputation and brands, changes our business practices manner adverse our business, and adverse effects our business and financial results. Such developments have subjected, and may the future subject, additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could subject monetary penalties and damages, divert management\' time and attention, and lead enhanced regulatory oversight. Our products and internal systems rely software and hardware that highly technical, and any errors, bugs, vulnerabilities these systems, failures address mitigate technical limitations our systems, could adversely affect our business. Our products and internal systems rely software and hardware, including software and hardware developed maintained internally and third parties (including open source software), that highly technical and complex. addition, our products and internal systems depend the ability such software and hardware store, retrieve, process, and manage immense amounts data. The software and hardware which rely has contained, and will the future contain, errors, bugs, vulnerabilities, and our systems are subject certain technical limitations that may compromise our ability meet our objectives. Some errors, bugs, vulnerabilities inherently may difficult detect and may only discovered after the code has been released for external internal use. For example, September , announced our discovery third-party cyber-attack that exploited vulnerability Facebook\' code steal user access tokens and access certain profile information from user accounts Facebook. Errors, bugs, vulnerabilities, design defects, technical limitations within the software and hardware which rely, human error using such systems, have led , and may the future lead , outcomes including negative experience other adverse effects for users and marketers who use our products, compromised ability our products perform manner consistent with our terms, contracts, policies, delayed product introductions enhancements, targeting, measurement, billing errors, compromised ability protect the data our users and our intellectual property other data, reductions our ability provide some all our services. For example, make commitments our users how their data will collected, used, shared, and retained within and across our products, and our systems are subject errors, bugs and technical limitations that may prevent from fulfilling these commitments reliably. addition, any errors, bugs, vulnerabilities, defects our systems the software and hardware which rely, failures properly address mitigate the technical limitations our systems, associated degradations interruptions service failures fulfill our commitments our users, have led , and may the future lead , outcomes including damage our reputation, loss users, loss marketers, loss revenue, regulatory inquiries, litigation, liability for fines, damages, other remedies, any which could adversely affect our business and financial results. are unable protect our intellectual property, the value our brands and other intangible assets may diminished, and our business may adversely affected. rely and expect continue rely combination confidentiality, assignment, and license agreements with our employees, consultants, and third parties with whom have relationships, well trademark, copyright, patent, trade secret, and domain name protection laws, protect our proprietary rights. the United States and internationally, have filed various applications for protection certain aspects our intellectual property, and currently hold significant number registered trademarks and issued patents multiple jurisdictions and have acquired patents and patent applications from third parties. Third parties may knowingly unknowingly infringe our proprietary rights, third parties may challenge proprietary rights held , and pending and future trademark and patent applications may not approved. addition, effective intellectual property protection may not available every country which operate intend operate our business. any all these cases, may required expend significant time and expense order prevent infringement enforce our rights. Although have generally taken measures protect our proprietary rights, there can assurance that others will not offer products concepts that are substantially similar ours and compete with our business. addition, regularly contribute software source code under open source and other permissive licenses and have made other technology developed available under such licenses, and include open source software our products. Additionally, our trained data sets that may include open source software and the outputs our may subject open source license restrictions obligations. result our open source contributions and the use open source our products, may license required license disclose code and innovations that turn out material our business and may also exposed increased litigation risk. the protection our proprietary rights inadequate prevent unauthorized use appropriation third parties, the value our brands and other intangible assets may diminished and competitors may able more effectively mimic our products, services, and methods operations. Any these events could have adverse effect our business and financial results. are currently, and expect the future, party patent, trademark, and copyright lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming and, resolved adversely, could have significant impact our business, financial condition, results operations. Companies the internet, technology, and media industries own large numbers patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets, and frequently enter into litigation based allegations infringement, misappropriation, other violations intellectual property other rights. addition, various "non-practicing entities" that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt aggressively assert their rights order extract value from technology companies. Furthermore, from time time may introduce acquire new products, including areas where historically have not competed, introduce new features for existing products, which could increase our exposure intellectual property claims from competitors, non-practicing entities, and other rights holders. From time time, receive notice from patent, copyright, and trademark holders and other parties alleging that certain our products and services, trademarks, user content, infringe their intellectual property rights. presently are involved number intellectual property lawsuits, and face increasing competition and develop new products and services, expect the number intellectual property claims against grow. Defending intellectual property litigation often costly and can impose significant burden management and employees, and there can assurances that favorable final outcomes will obtained all cases. addition, plaintiffs may seek, and may become subject , preliminary provisional rulings the course any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring change cease some all our operations. may decide settle such lawsuits and disputes terms that are unfavorable . Similarly, any litigation which are party resolved adversely, may subject unfavorable judgment that may not reversed upon appeal. The terms such settlement judgment may require change cease some all our operations pay substantial amounts the other party. addition, may have seek license continue practices found violation third party\' rights, which may not available reasonable terms, all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. result, may also required develop alternative non-infringing technology practices, branding discontinue the practices branding. The development alternative non-infringing technology, branding practices could require significant effort and expense, could result less effective technology, branding practices otherwise negatively affect the user experience, may not feasible. have experienced unfavorable outcomes such disputes and litigation the past, and our business, financial condition, and results operations could adversely affected result unfavorable resolution the disputes and litigation referred above. Risks Related Ownership Our Class Common Stock The trading price our Class common stock has been and will likely continue volatile. The trading price our Class common stock has been, and likely continue , volatile. Since shares our Class common stock were sold our initial public offering May price $ per share, our stock price has ranged from $ $ through December , . addition the factors discussed this Annual Report Form - , the trading price our Class common stock has the past fluctuated and may the future fluctuate significantly response numerous factors, many which are beyond our control, including: • actual anticipated fluctuations our revenue and other operating results for either our reportable segments; • the financial projections may provide the public, any changes these projections, our failure meet these projections; • actions securities analysts who initiate maintain coverage , changes financial estimates any securities analysts who follow our company, our failure meet these estimates the expectations investors; • additional shares our stock being sold into the market , our existing stockholders, connection with acquisitions, the anticipation such sales; • investor sentiment with respect our competitors, our business partners, and our industry general; • announcements our competitors significant products features, technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments; • announcements estimates third parties actual anticipated changes the size our user base, the level user engagement, the effectiveness our products; • changes operating performance and stock market valuations technology companies our industry, including our developers and competitors; • price and volume fluctuations the overall stock market, including result trends the economy whole; • the inclusion, exclusion, deletion our stock from any trading indices, such the & Index; • media coverage our business and financial performance; • lawsuits threatened filed against , developments pending lawsuits; • adverse government actions legislative regulatory developments relating advertising, competition, content, privacy, other matters, including interim final rulings tax, judicial, regulatory bodies; • trading activity our share repurchase program; and • other events factors, including those resulting from war, incidents terrorism, pandemics, and other disruptive external events, responses these events. addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue affect the market prices equity securities many technology companies. are currently subject securities litigation connection with our platform and user data practices and the misuse certain data developer that shared such data with third parties violation our terms and policies; the disclosure our earnings results for the second quarter ; former employee\' allegations and release internal company documents beginning September ; and the disclosure our earnings results for the fourth quarter . may experience more such litigation following future periods volatility. Any securities litigation could subject substantial costs, divert resources and the attention management from our business, and adversely affect our business. The dual class structure our common stock has the effect concentrating voting control with our CEO and certain other holders our Class common stock; this will limit preclude your ability influence corporate matters. Our Class common stock has ten votes per share and our Class common stock has one vote per share. Holders our Class common stock, including our founder, Board Chair, and CEO, together hold majority the combined voting power our outstanding capital stock, and therefore are able control the outcome all matters submitted our stockholders for approval long the shares Class common stock represent least % all outstanding shares our Class and Class common stock. This concentrated control will limit preclude your ability influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future. Transfers holders Class common stock will generally result those shares converting Class common stock, subject limited exceptions, such certain transfers effected for estate planning charitable purposes. The conversion Class common stock Class common stock will have the effect, over time, increasing the relative voting power those holders Class common stock who retain their shares the long term. , for example, . Zuckerberg retains significant portion his holdings Class common stock for extended period time, could, the future, continue control majority the combined voting power our outstanding capital stock. Our status "controlled company" could make our Class common stock less attractive some investors otherwise harm our stock price. Because qualify "controlled company" under the corporate governance rules for Nasdaq-listed companies, are not required have majority our board directors independent, nor are required have compensation committee independent nominating function. the future could elect not have majority our board directors independent not have compensation committee independent nominating function. Accordingly, should the interests our controlling stockholder differ from those other stockholders, the other stockholders may not have the same protections afforded stockholders companies that are subject all the corporate governance rules for Nasdaq-listed companies. Our status controlled company could make our Class common stock less attractive some investors otherwise harm our stock price. Delaware law and provisions our certificate incorporation and bylaws could make merger, tender offer, proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price our Class common stock. Our status Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, prevent change control prohibiting from engaging business combination with interested stockholder for period three years after the person becomes interested stockholder, even change control would beneficial our existing stockholders. addition, our current certificate incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition our company more difficult, including the following: • until the first date which the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than % the combined voting power our common stock, any transaction that would result change control our company requires the approval majority our outstanding Class common stock voting separate class; • currently have dual class common stock structure, which provides . Zuckerberg with the ability control the outcome matters requiring stockholder approval, even owns significantly less than majority the shares our outstanding Class and Class common stock; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power common stock, certain amendments our certificate incorporation bylaws will require the approval two-thirds the combined vote our then-outstanding shares Class and Class common stock; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power our common stock, vacancies our board directors will able filled only our board directors and not stockholders; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power our common stock, our board directors will classified into three classes directors with staggered three-year terms and directors will only able removed from office for cause; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power our common stock, our stockholders will only able take action meeting stockholders and not written consent; • only our board chair, our chief executive officer, our president, majority our board directors are authorized call special meeting stockholders; • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders nominate candidates for election directors bring matters before annual meeting stockholders; • our certificate incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms which may established, and shares which may issued, without stockholder approval; and • certain litigation against can only brought Delaware. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Cybersecurity Meta, cybersecurity risk management important part our overall risk management efforts. Our industry prone cybersecurity threats and attacks, and regularly experience cybersecurity incidents varying degrees. believe are particularly attractive target result our prominence and scale, the types and volume personal data and content our systems, and the evolving nature our products and services. Our products and services reach billions users and involve the collection, storage, processing, and transmission large amount data. addition, our business and operations span numerous geographies around the world, involve thousands employees, contractors, vendors, developers, partners, and other third parties, and rely software and hardware that highly technical and complex. maintain information security program that comprised policies and controls designed mitigate cybersecurity risk. However, any given time, face known and unknown cybersecurity risks and threats that are not fully mitigated, and discover vulnerabilities our program. continuously work enhance our information security program and risk management efforts. use risk management framework based applicable laws and regulations, and informed industry standards and industry-recognized practices, for managing cybersecurity risks within our products and services, infrastructure, and corporate resources. identify and assess risks from cybersecurity threats, evaluate variety developments including threat intelligence, first- and third-party vulnerabilities, evolving regulatory requirements, and observed cybersecurity incidents, among others. regularly conduct risk assessments evaluate the maturity and effectiveness our systems and processes addressing cybersecurity threats and identify any areas for remediation and opportunities for enhancements. also engage third-party security experts and consultants assist with assessment and enhancement our cybersecurity risk management processes, well benchmarking against industry practices. addition, maintain privacy risk management program assess privacy risks related how are collecting, using, sharing, and storing user data, which subject assessment independent, third-party privacy assessor. Our internal audit function provides independent assessment and assurance the overall operations our cybersecurity and privacy programs and the supporting control frameworks. These processes support informed risk-based decision-making and prioritization cybersecurity countermeasures and risk mitigation strategies. Our risk mitigation strategies include broad variety technical and operational measures, well annual cybersecurity and privacy training for all our employees. addition, maintain specific policies and practices governing our third-party security risks, including our third-party assessment (TPA) process. Under our TPA process, gather information from certain third parties who contract with Meta and share receive data, have access integrate with our systems, order help assess potential risks associated with their security controls. also generally require third parties , among other things, maintain security controls protect our confidential information and data, and notify material data breaches that may impact our data. Our board directors has oversight our strategic and business risk management and has delegated cybersecurity risk management oversight the audit & risk oversight committee our board directors (Audit & Risk Oversight Committee). Our Audit & Risk Oversight Committee responsible for ensuring that management has processes place designed identify and evaluate cybersecurity risks which the company exposed and implement processes and programs manage cybersecurity risks and mitigate cybersecurity incidents. The privacy committee our board directors (Privacy Committee) oversees risks related privacy and data use, including overseeing compliance with our comprehensive privacy program. Management responsible for identifying, assessing, and managing material cybersecurity risks ongoing basis, establishing processes ensure that such potential cybersecurity risk exposures are monitored, putting place appropriate mitigation measures, maintaining cybersecurity policies and procedures, and providing regular reports our board directors, including through the Audit & Risk Oversight Committee and Privacy Committee. Our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Guy Rosen leads our cybersecurity program and oversees teams across the company supporting our security functions identify, prevent, detect, respond, and recover. These teams are comprised personnel with broad range experience across the private and public sectors, the technology industry, and different geographic regions. . Rosen has two decades experience various cybersecurity, software development, product management, and other technology-related roles. . Rosen has served number significant leadership roles our company since , including oversight security, safety, and integrity initiatives, and was appointed our CISO . Prior joining our company, . Rosen served senior leadership, engineering, and operational roles across technology organizations. Our cybersecurity teams monitor the prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation cybersecurity incidents through variety technical and operational measures, and regularly report our CISO. Our CISO part the senior management team the company and regularly updates the Audit & Risk Oversight Committee the company’ cybersecurity program, including cybersecurity risks, incidents, and mitigation strategies. , did not identify any cybersecurity threats that have materially affected are reasonably likely materially affect our business strategy, results operations, financial condition. However, despite our efforts, cannot eliminate all risks from cybersecurity threats, provide assurances that have not experienced undetected cybersecurity incidents. For additional information about these risks, see Part , Item , "Risk Factors" this Annual Report Form - . ', 'item 2. ': 'Properties Our corporate headquarters are located Menlo Park, California. December , , owned and leased approximately million square feet office and building space for our corporate headquarters and the surrounding areas, which included approximately three million square feet unoccupied office and building space that plan either sublease, early terminate, abandon related our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. also owned and leased approximately acres land developed accommodate anticipated future growth. addition, have offices approximately cities across North America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. also own data center locations globally. See Note — Restructuring the notes the consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - for additional information regarding our facilities consolidation efforts. believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings multinational company with complex and evolving business, are, and expect continue , subject numerous claims, litigation, regulatory, tax, and government inquiries and investigations, and other legal proceedings jurisdictions around the world. Although believe many these matters are without merit and are vigorously defending them, may not successful. Any litigation which are party may resolved adversely may subject unfavorable judgment that may not reversed upon appeal. may also decide settle litigation, disputes, other legal proceedings some instances terms that are unfavorable . addition, may become subject orders consent decrees imposed government regulatory authorities. Any such developments could cause incur substantial costs, expose civil and criminal liability (including liability for our personnel) penalties (including substantial monetary remedies), interrupt require change our business practices manner materially adverse our business (including changes our products and services user data practices), result negative publicity and reputational harm, divert resources and the time and attention management from our business, subject other structural behavioral remedies that adversely affect our business. have experienced such outcomes varying degrees the past, and expect continue face challenging litigation and regulatory environment, including light complex and evolving laws and regulations, well the scale our business and the size our user and advertiser base. Over the last several years, the number and potential significance the litigation and investigations involving the company have increased, and there can assurance that this trend will not continue. For example, are facing numerous cases the United States which plaintiffs are attempting avoid limit the application Section the Communications Decency Act their claims. Outside the United States, are subject new regulatory regimes, including the Digital Services Act, Digital Markets Act, and similar statutes non- countries, and new fining guidelines under existing regulatory regimes like the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). are also responding litigation and government investigations related our alleged role causing contributing various societal harms, including mental and physical health and safety impacts users, particularly younger users, child and adult sexual exploitation, illegal activity with respect drugs, fraud, unlawful discrimination, and other harms potentially impacting large numbers people. This addition significant tax, antitrust, stockholder, and privacy litigation and investigations. Furthermore, the number our users and amount our revenue have grown, our potential exposure substantial damages awards and fines has increased. some instances, particularly with novel legal and factual claims, new regulatory regimes statutes that have not previously been enforced, where the nature type enforcement pursued against novel, can very difficult assess the likelihood extent potential liabilities, including the applicability and amount any fines penalties. While have identified below certain matters that believe material, there can assurance that additional material losses limitations our activities will not result from claims that have not yet been asserted are not yet determined material. Privacy and Related Matters Beginning March , , multiple putative class actions were filed state and federal courts the United States and elsewhere against and certain our directors and officers alleging various causes action connection with our platform and user data practices well the misuse certain data developer that shared such data with third parties violation our terms and policies, and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief. With respect the putative class actions alleging fraud and violations consumer protection, privacy, and other laws connection with the same matters, several the cases brought behalf consumers the United States were consolidated the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Facebook, Inc., Consumer Privacy User Profile Litigation ). September , , the court granted, part, and denied, part, our motion dismiss the consolidated putative consumer class action. December , , the parties entered into settlement agreement resolve the lawsuit, which provides for payment $ million . The settlement was approved the court October , , and the payment was made November . addition, our platform and user data practices, well the events surrounding the misuse certain data developer, became the subject . Federal Trade Commission (FTC), state attorneys general, and other government inquiries the United States, Europe, and other jurisdictions. entered into settlement and modified consent order resolve the FTC inquiry, which took effect April and required pay penalty $ billion and significantly enhance our practices and processes for privacy compliance and oversight. The state attorneys general inquiry and certain government inquiries other jurisdictions remain ongoing and could subject additional substantial fines and costs, require change our business practices, divert resources and the attention management from our business, adversely affect our business. July , , stockholder derivative action was filed Delaware Court Chancery against certain our directors and officers asserting breach fiduciary duty and related claims relating our historical platform and user data practices, well our settlement with the FTC. July , , other stockholders filed amended derivative complaint related Delaware Chancery Court action, asserting breach fiduciary duty and related claims against certain our current and former directors and officers connection with our historical platform and user data practices. November , , the lead plaintiffs filed second amended and consolidated complaint the stockholder derivative action. The pending consolidated matter Facebook Inc. Derivative Litigation . January , , filed motion dismiss, which was denied part May , . The insider trading claim was dismissed all defendants except Mark Zuckerberg, and the motion was denied the breach fiduciary duty claims. May , , the FTC filed public administrative proceeding ( the Matter Facebook, Inc. ), seeking substantial changes the modified consent order, which took effect April after its entry the . District Court for the District Columbia. The changes sought the FTC are set forth proposed order and include, among others, prohibition our use minors\' data for any commercial purposes, changes the composition our board directors, and significant limitations our ability modify and launch new products. May , , filed motion before the . District Court for the District Columbia ( USA . Facebook, Inc. ) seeking enjoin the FTC from further pursuing its agency process modify the modified consent order. November , , the district court denied our motion, and have appealed the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit ( . . Facebook, Inc. ) and sought stay the FTC proceeding pending resolution the appeal. January , , the district court denied our motion for stay pending appeal and, January , , filed motion for stay pending appeal before the Court Appeals. November , , separately filed complaint, also the . District Court for the District Columbia ( Meta Platforms, Inc. . FTC ), asserting constitutional challenges the structure the FTC, and seeking preliminarily enjoin the FTC proceeding during the pendency the litigation. December , , the FTC filed opposition our motion for preliminary injunction and motion dismiss the complaint. Oral argument our motion enjoin and the FTC\' motion dismiss scheduled for March , . the FTC proceeding not enjoined stayed, our response the proceeding will due March , , after which time the FTC could amend the order impose these additional requirements set forth the proposed order. should have the opportunity appeal FTC decision modifying the order and could request the appellate court stay the enforcement the modifications the order while the appeal pending. unclear whether the appeal the request for stay would successful. also notify the Irish Data Protection Commission (IDPC), our lead European Union privacy regulator under the GDPR, certain other personal data breaches and privacy issues, and are subject inquiries and investigations the IDPC and other European regulators regarding various aspects our regulatory compliance. For example, May , , the IDPC issued Final Decision concluding that Meta Platforms Ireland\' reliance Standard Contractual Clauses respect certain transfers European Economic Area (EEA) Facebook user data was not compliance with the GDPR. The IDPC issued administrative fine EUR € billion well corrective orders requiring Meta Platforms Ireland suspend the relevant transfers and bring its processing operations into compliance with Chapter GDPR ceasing the unlawful processing, including storage, such data the United States. are appealing this decision and the corrective orders are currently subject interim stay from the Irish High Court. October , , President Biden signed the Executive Order Enhancing Safeguards for United States Signals Intelligence Activities ( .), and June , , the European Union and the three additional countries making the EEA were designated the United States Attorney General "qualifying state" under Section ( ) the . July , , the European Commission adopted adequacy decision relation the United States. The adequacy decision concludes that the United States ensures adequate level protection for personal data transferred from the European Union organizations the United States that are included the "Data Privacy Framework List," maintained and made publicly available the United States Department Commerce pursuant the - . Data Privacy Framework ( - . DPF). The implementation the - . DPF and the adequacy decision are important and welcome milestones, and are implementing steps comply with the above corrective orders following engagement with the IDPC. For additional information, see Part , Item , "Risk Factors—Our business subject complex and evolving . and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data use and data protection, content, competition, safety and consumer protection, -commerce, and other matters" this Annual Report Form ‑ . Any such inquiries investigations (including the IDPC proceedings) could subject substantial fines and costs, require change our business practices, divert resources and the attention management from our business, adversely affect our business. February , , the State Texas filed lawsuit against Texas state court ( Texas . Meta Platforms, Inc. ) alleging that "tag suggestions" and other uses facial recognition technology violated the Texas Capture Use Biometric Identifiers Act and the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices-Consumer Protection Act, and seeking statutory damages and injunctive relief. The case currently scheduled for trial June . Beginning June , , multiple putative class actions were filed against alleging that improperly received individuals\' information from third-party websites apps via our business tools violation our terms and various state and federal laws and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief (for example, Meta Pixel Healthcare Litigation; Meta Pixel Tax Filing Cases; Frasco . Flo Health, Inc.; Doe . Hey Favor, Inc. .; Doe . GoodRx Holdings, Inc. . the . District Court for the Northern District California; and Rickwalder, . . Meta Platforms, Inc. the California Supreme Court). Competition are subject various litigation and government inquiries and investigations, formal informal, competition authorities the United States, Europe, and other jurisdictions. Such investigations, inquiries, and lawsuits concern, among other things, our business practices the areas social networking social media services, digital advertising, and mobile online applications, well our acquisitions. For example, became the subject antitrust investigations the FTC and . Department Justice. December , , the FTC filed complaint ( FTC . Meta Platforms, Inc. ) against the . District Court for the District Columbia alleging that engaged anticompetitive conduct and unfair methods competition violation Section the Federal Trade Commission Act and Section the Sherman Act, including acquiring Instagram and WhatsApp and maintaining conditions access our platform. The FTC sought permanent injunction against our company\' alleged violations the antitrust laws, and other equitable relief, including divestiture reconstruction Instagram and WhatsApp. June , , the court granted our motion dismiss the complaint filed the FTC with leave amend. August , , the FTC filed amended complaint, and October , , filed motion dismiss this amended complaint. January , , the court denied our motion dismiss the FTC\' amended complaint. Multiple putative class actions have also been filed state and federal courts the United States and the United Kingdom against alleging violations antitrust laws and other causes action connection with these acquisitions and other alleged anticompetitive conduct, and seeking damages and injunctive relief. Several the cases brought behalf certain advertisers and users the United States were consolidated the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Klein ., . Meta Platforms, Inc. ). January , , the court granted, part, and denied, part, our motion dismiss the consolidated actions. March , , first amended consolidated complaint was filed the putative class action brought behalf certain advertisers. December , , the court denied our motion dismiss the first amended consolidated complaint filed the putative class action brought behalf certain advertisers. December , the European Commission issued Statement Objections alleging that tie Facebook Marketplace Facebook and use data manner that infringes European Union competition rules. February , , the German Federal Cartel Office (FCO) issued antitrust injunction order claiming that our terms and policies data sharing across our apps, and collection from third-party websites via our business tools, breached European data protection principles and German competition law. brought lawsuit seeking invalidate the order February , . March , , the Higher Regional Court, Düsseldorf, Germany referred several questions the Court Justice the European Union (CJEU) including certain questions regarding interpretation the GDPR. July , , the CJEU issued decision which particular made more difficult rely "legitimate interests," and "contractual necessity" opposed user "consent," legal basis for data processing under the GDPR for ads and personalization purposes. The result such litigation, investigations inquiries could subject substantial monetary remedies and costs, interrupt require change our business practices, divert resources and the attention management from our business, subject other structural behavioral remedies that adversely affect our business. Securities and Other Actions Beginning March , , multiple putative class actions and derivative actions were filed state and federal courts the United States and elsewhere against and certain our directors and officers alleging violations securities laws, breach fiduciary duties, and other causes action connection with our platform and user data practices well the misuse certain data developer that shared such data with third parties violation our terms and policies, and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief. Beginning July , , two putative class actions were filed federal court the United States against and certain our directors and officers alleging violations securities laws connection with the disclosure our earnings results for the second quarter and seeking unspecified damages. These two actions subsequently were transferred and consolidated the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Facebook, Inc. Securities Litigation ) with the putative securities class action described above relating our platform and user data practices. series orders and , the district court granted our motions dismiss the plaintiffs\' claims. January , , the plaintiffs filed notice appeal the order dismissing their case, and October , , the . Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued its decision affirming part and reversing part the district court\' order dismissing the plaintiffs\' case. are also subject other government inquiries and investigations relating our business activities and disclosure practices. For example, beginning September , became subject government investigations and requests relating former employee\' allegations and release internal company documents concerning, among other things, our algorithms, advertising and user metrics, and content enforcement practices, well misinformation and other undesirable activity our platform, and user well-being. have since received additional requests relating these and other topics. Beginning October , , multiple putative class actions and derivative actions were filed the . District Court for the Northern District California against and certain our directors and officers alleging violations securities laws, breach fiduciary duties, and other causes action connection with the same matters, and seeking unspecified damages. Ohio Pub. Empl. Ret. Sys. . Meta Platforms, Inc. March , , putative class action was filed the . District Court for the Northern District California against and certain our directors and officers alleging violations securities laws connection with the disclosure our earnings results for the fourth quarter and seeking unspecified damages ( Plumbers & Steamfitters Local Pension Trust . Meta Platforms, Inc. ). July , , the court dismissed the claims against Meta and its officers with leave amend. September , , the plaintiffs filed amended complaint. Youth-Related Actions Beginning January , became subject litigation and other proceedings that were filed various federal and state courts alleging that Facebook and Instagram cause "social media addiction" users, with most proceedings focused those under years old, resulting various mental health and other harms. Putative class actions have been filed the United States and Canada behalf users those jurisdictions, and numerous school districts, municipalities and one state the United States have filed public nuisance claims based similar allegations. October , , the federal cases were centralized the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Social Media Adolescent Addiction Product Liability Personal Injury Litigation ). October , , Social Media Cases , the Los Angeles County Superior Court presiding over the California state court proceedings sustained part and overruled part our demurrer the plaintiff\' claims. Beginning October , additional . states have filed lawsuits these topics various federal and state courts. These additional lawsuits include allegations regarding violations the Children\' Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) well violations state laws concerning consumer protection, unfair business practices, and products liability, with proceedings focused our alleged business practices and harms users under years old. These lawsuits seek damages and injunctive relief, and include cases filed various state attorneys general Social Media Adolescent Addiction Product Liability Personal Injury Litigation the . District Court for the Northern District California, well various state courts around the country. are also subject government investigations and requests from multiple regulators concerning the use our products, and the alleged mental and physical health and safety impacts users, particularly younger users. Other Actions Beginning August , , multiple putative class actions were filed against alleging that inflated our estimates the potential audience size for advertisements, resulting artificially increased demand and higher prices. The cases were consolidated the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Reserve . Facebook, Inc. ) and seek unspecified damages and injunctive relief. series rulings , , and , the court dismissed certain the plaintiffs\' claims, but permitted their fraud and unfair competition claims proceed. March , , the court granted the plaintiffs\' motion for class certification. June , , the . Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit granted our petition for permission appeal the district court\' class certification order, and the court heard argument September , . The case stayed the district court pending appeal. Beginning July , , multiple putative class actions were filed against the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Kadrey, . . Meta Platforms, Inc. and Chabon, . . Meta Platforms, Inc. ) and . District Court for the Southern District New York ( Huckabee, . . Meta Platforms, Inc. ., which was subsequently transferred the . District Court for the Northern District California ) alleging that used various copyrighted books and materials train our artificial intelligence models, and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief. the first quarter , the Supreme Court scheduled hear argument Vivek . Murthy, Surgeon General, . . Missouri , . , the question whether federal government officials violated the First Amendment their communications with the company and others related content moderation practices, and hear argument Netchoice, . . Paxton and Moody, . . Netchoice . , regarding the application the First Amendment relating content moderation tech platforms. Although Meta not defendant these actions, the Supreme Court\' decision and ultimate resolution the lawsuit could impact our business. addition, are subject litigation and other proceedings involving law enforcement and other regulatory agencies, including particular Brazil, Russia, and other countries Europe, order ascertain the precise scope our legal obligations comply with the requests those agencies, including our obligation disclose user information particular circumstances. number such instances have resulted the assessment fines and penalties against . believe have multiple legal grounds satisfy these requests prevail against associated fines and penalties, and intend vigorously defend such fines and penalties. are also party various other legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, tax government inquiries and investigations that arise the ordinary course business, and expect subject additional legal proceedings and disputes the future. ', 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\' Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities Market Information for Common Stock Our Class common stock trading the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol \'META\'. This replaced the ticker symbol \' ,\' which had been used since the company\' initial public offering . Prior that time, there was public market for our stock. Our Class common stock not listed any stock exchange nor traded any public market. Holders Record December , , there were , stockholders record our Class common stock, and the closing price our Class common stock was $ per share reported the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Because many our shares Class common stock are held brokers and other institutions behalf stockholders, are unable estimate the total number stockholders represented these record holders. December , , there were stockholders record our Class common stock. Dividend Policy Prior , had never declared paid any cash dividend our common stock. February , announced the initiation our first ever cash dividend program. This cash dividend $ per share Class common stock and Class common stock (together, the “common stock”) equivalent $ per share annual basis. The first cash dividend will paid March , all holders record common stock the close business February , . The payment future cash dividends subject future declaration our board directors, which will based part continued capital availability, market conditions, applicable laws and agreements, and our board directors continuing determine that the declaration dividends the best interests our stockholders. Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers The following table summarizes the share repurchase activity for the three months ended December , : Total Number Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share ( ) Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Programs ( ) Approximate Dollar Value Shares that May Yet Purchased Under the Plans Programs ( ) ( thousands) ( thousands) ( millions) October - , , $ , $ , November - , — $ — — $ , December - , , $ , $ , Total , , ____________________________________ ( ) November , , announced that our board directors had authorized share repurchase program our Class common stock, which commenced January and does not have expiration date. January , additional $ billion repurchases was authorized under this program . The timing and actual number shares repurchased depend variety factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities, and shares may repurchased through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions, including through the use trading plans intended qualify under Rule 10b5- under the Exchange Act. See Note — Stockholders\' Equity Part , Item this Annual Report Form - for additional information related share repurchases. ( ) Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases but excludes the % excise tax accrued our share repurchases result the Inflation Reduction Act . Recent Sale Unregistered Securities and Use Proceeds Recent Sale Unregistered Securities None. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not deemed "soliciting material" "filed" with the SEC for purposes Section the Exchange Act, otherwise subject the liabilities under that Section, and shall not deemed incorporated reference into any filing Meta Platforms, Inc. under the Securities Act , amended, the Exchange Act. The following graph shows comparison the cumulative total return for our Class common stock, the Dow Jones Internet Composite Index (DJINET), the Standard & Poor\' Stock Index ( & ) and the Nasdaq Composite Index (Nasdaq Composite) for the five years ended December , . The graph assumes that $ was invested the market close the last trading day for the fiscal year ended December , the Class common stock Meta Platforms, Inc., the DJINET, the & , and the Nasdaq Composite and data for the DJINET, the & , and the Nasdaq Composite assumes reinvestments gross dividends. The stock price performance the following graph not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. ', 'item 6. ': '[Reserved] ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations You should read the following discussion our financial condition and results operations conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . addition our historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause contribute these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere this Annual Report Form - , particularly Part , Item , "Risk Factors." For discussion limitations the measurement certain our community metrics, see the section entitled "Limitations Key Metrics and Other Data" this Annual Report Form - . supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented accordance with generally accepted accounting principles the United States (GAAP), present revenue constant currency basis and free cash flow, which are non-GAAP financial measures. Revenue constant currency basis presented the section entitled " — Revenue — Foreign Exchange Impact Revenue." calculate revenue constant currency basis, translated revenue for the full year using monthly exchange rates for our settlement billing currencies other than the . dollar. For full description our free cash flow non-GAAP measure, see the section entitled " — Liquidity and Capital Resources—Free Cash Flow." These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended considered isolation substitute for, superior , financial information prepared and presented accordance with GAAP. These measures may different from non‑GAAP financial measures used other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. Moreover, presentation revenue constant currency basis provided for year-over-year comparison purposes, and investors should cautioned that the effect changing foreign currency exchange rates has actual effect our operating results. believe these non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful supplemental information about the financial performance our business, enable comparison financial results between periods where certain items may vary independent business performance, and allow for greater transparency with respect key metrics used management operating our business. Executive Overview Full Year Results Our mission give people the power build community and bring the world closer together. Our financial results and key community metrics for are set forth below. Our total revenue for was $ billion, increase % compared , due increase advertising revenue. Revenue constant currency basis would have increased % compared . impressions delivered across our Family Apps increased % year-over-year , partially offset % year-over-year decrease the average price per . Income from operations for was $ billion, increase $ billion, %, compared , driven increase advertising revenue. Consolidated and Segment Results report our financial results for our two reportable segments: Family Apps (FoA) and Reality Labs ( ). FoA includes Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, WhatsApp, and other services. includes our augmented, mixed and virtual reality related consumer hardware, software, and content. Family Apps Reality Labs Total Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , % change % change % change ( millions, except percentages) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , $ , ( )% $ , $ , % Costs and expenses $ , $ , ( )% $ , $ , % $ , $ , % Income (loss) from operations $ , $ , % $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( )% $ , $ , % Operating margin % % ( ) % ( ) % % % • Net income was $ billion, with diluted earnings per share (EPS) $ for the year ended December , . • Capital expenditures, including principal payments finance leases, were $ billion for the year ended December , . • Effective tax rate was % for the year ended December , . • Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $ billion December , . • Long-term debt was $ billion December , . • Headcount was , December , , decrease % year-over-year. Dividend Prior , had never declared paid any cash dividend our common stock. February , announced the initiation our first ever cash dividend program. This cash dividend $ per share Class common stock and Class common stock (together, the “common stock”) equivalent $ per share annual basis. The first cash dividend will paid March , all holders record common stock the close business February , . Restructuring Beginning , initiated several measures pursue greater efficiency and realign our business and strategic priorities. December , , have completed the data center initiatives and the employee layoffs, and substantially completed the facilities consolidation initiatives. summary our restructuring charges, including subsequent adjustments, for the year ended December , major activity type follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Facilities Consolidation Severance and Other Personnel Costs Data Center Assets Total Cost revenue $ $ — $ ( ) $ ( ) Research and development , — , Marketing and sales — General and administrative — Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , During and , recognized total pre-tax restructuring charges $ billion and $ billion under our FoA segment, and $ million and $ million under our segment, respectively. See Note — Restructuring the notes the consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - for additional information regarding restructuring charges. Family Apps Metrics • Family daily active people (DAP) was billion average for December , increase % year-over-year. • Family monthly active people (MAP) was billion December , , increase % year-over-year. • Facebook daily active users (DAUs) were billion average for December , increase % year-over-year. • Facebook monthly active users (MAUs) were billion December , , increase % year-over-year. • impressions delivered across our Family Apps increased % year-over-year , and the average price per decreased % year-over-year . Beginning with our Quarterly Report Form - filed for the first quarter , will longer report DAUs, MAUs, ARPU, and MAP our periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. intend begin reporting year-over-year percentage changes impressions delivered and the average price per geographic region, while continuing report DAP and ARPP (calculated based DAP), beginning with our Quarterly Report Form - filed for the first quarter . For additional information, see the section entitled "Limitations Key Metrics and Other Data" this Annual Report Form - . Developments Advertising Substantially all our revenue currently generated from advertising Facebook and Instagram. rely targeting and measurement tools that incorporate data signals from user activity websites and services that not control order deliver relevant and effective ads our users. Our advertising revenue has been, and expect will continue , adversely affected reduced marketer spending result limitations our targeting and measurement tools arising from changes the regulatory environment and third-party mobile operating systems and browsers. particular, legislative and regulatory developments such the General Data Protection Regulation, including its evolving interpretation through decisions the Court Justice the European Union, ePrivacy Directive, the European Digital Services Act, and . state privacy laws including the California Consumer Privacy Act, amended the California Privacy Rights Act, have impacted our ability use data signals our products, and expect these and other developments such the Digital Markets Act will have further impact the future. result, have implemented, and will continue implement, whether voluntarily otherwise, changes our products and user data practices, which reduce our ability effectively target and measure ads. For example, response regulatory developments Europe, announced our plans change the legal basis for behavioral advertising Facebook and Instagram the , European Economic Area, and Switzerland from "legitimate interests" "consent," and began offering users the region "subscription for ads" alternative. are continuing engage with regulators our new consent model. addition, mobile operating system and browser providers, such Apple and Google, have implemented product changes and announced future plans limit the ability websites and application developers collect and use these signals target and measure advertising. For example, , Apple made certain changes its products and data use policies connection with changes its iOS operating system that reduce our and other iOS developers\' ability target and measure advertising, which has negatively impacted, and expect will continue negatively impact, the size the budgets marketers are willing commit and other advertising platforms. mitigate these developments, are continually working evolve our advertising systems improve the performance our products. are developing privacy enhancing technologies deliver relevant ads and measurement capabilities while reducing the amount personal information process, including relying more anonymized aggregated third-party data. addition, are developing tools that enable marketers share their data into our systems, well products that generate more valuable signals within our apps. More broadly, also continue innovate our advertising tools help marketers prepare campaigns and connect with consumers, including developing growing formats such Reels ads and our business messaging products. Across all these efforts, are making significant investments artificial intelligence ( ), including generative , improve our delivery, targeting, and measurement capabilities. Further, are focused driving onsite conversions our business messaging products developing new features and scaling existing features. are also engaging with others across our industry explore the possibility new open standards for the private and secure processing data for advertising purposes. believe our ongoing improvements targeting and measurement are continuing drive improved results for advertisers. However, expect that some these efforts will long-term initiatives, and that the legislative, regulatory and platform developments described above will continue adversely impact our advertising revenue for the foreseeable future. Other Business and Macroeconomic Conditions Other global and regional business, macroeconomic, and geopolitical conditions also have had, and believe will continue have, impact our user growth and engagement and advertising revenue. particular, believe advertising budgets have been pressured from time time factors such inflation, rising interest rates, and related market uncertainty, which has led reduced marketer spending. While saw improvement business and macroeconomic conditions , continued business, macroeconomic, and geopolitical uncertainty remains, which could impact our financial results future periods. addition, competitive products and services have reduced some users\' engagement with our products and services. are investing Reels and initiatives across our products, including our -powered discovery engine recommend relevant content, which have already seen results improved user engagement and monetization our products. While Reels growing usage, monetizes lower rate than our feed and Stories products and expect will continue monetize lower rate for the foreseeable future. also have seen fluctuations and declines the size our active user base one more regions from time time. For example, connection with the war Ukraine, access Facebook and Instagram was restricted Russia and the services were then prohibited the Russian government, which continued adversely affect user growth and engagement . These trends adversely affected advertising revenue , and expect will continue affect our advertising revenue the foreseeable future. Although regularly evaluate variety sources understand trends our advertising revenue, not have perfect visibility into the factors driving advertiser spending decisions and our assessments involve complex judgments about what driving advertising decisions across large and diversified advertiser base across the globe. Trends impacting advertising spend are also dynamic and interrelated. result, difficult identify with precision which advertiser spending decisions are attributable which trends, and are unable quantify the exact impact that each trend had our advertising revenue during the periods presented. Investment Philosophy expect continue build the discipline and habits that developed when initiated several efforts increase our operating efficiency, while still remaining focused investing significant opportunities. , % our total costs and expenses were recognized FoA and % were recognized . Our FoA investments include expenses relating headcount, data centers, and technical infrastructure part our efforts develop our apps and our advertising services. These efforts include significant investments initiatives, including recommend relevant content across our products, enhance our advertising tools, develop new products, and develop new features for existing products using generative . are also making significant investments our metaverse efforts, including developing virtual, augmented, and mixed reality devices, software for social platforms, neural interfaces, and other foundational technologies for the metaverse. Our investments include expenses relating technology development across these efforts. Many our investments are directed toward long-term, cutting-edge research and development for products for the metaverse that may only fully realized the next decade. , our segment reduced our overall operating profit approximately $ billion, and expect our operating losses increase meaningfully . expect this will complex, evolving, and long-term initiative, and our ability support our metaverse efforts dependent generating sufficient profits from other areas our business. are investing now because believe this the next chapter the internet and will unlock monetization opportunities for businesses, developers, and creators, including around advertising, hardware, and digital goods. Trends Our Family Metrics The numbers for our key Family metrics, our DAP, MAP, and average revenue per person (ARPP), not include users our other products unless they would otherwise qualify DAP MAP, respectively, based their other activities our Family products. Trends the number people our community affect our revenue and financial results influencing the number ads are able show, the value our ads marketers, well our expenses and capital expenditures. Substantially all our daily and monthly active people ( defined below) access our Family products mobile devices. • Daily Active People (DAP). define daily active person registered and logged- user Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, and WhatsApp (collectively, our "Family" products) who visited least one these Family products through mobile device application using web mobile browser given day. not require people use common identifier link their accounts use multiple products our Family, and therefore must seek attribute multiple user accounts within and across products individual people. Our calculations DAP rely upon complex techniques, algorithms, and machine learning models that seek estimate the underlying number unique people using one more these products, including matching user accounts within individual product and across multiple products when believe they are attributable single person, and counting such group accounts one person. these techniques and models require significant judgment, are developed based internal reviews limited samples user accounts, and are calibrated against user survey data, there necessarily some margin error our estimates. view DAP, and DAP percentage MAP, measures engagement across our products. For additional information, see the section entitled "Limitations Key Metrics and Other Data" this Annual Report Form - . ------ DAP MAP: ------ % ------- % -------- % -------- % --------- % -------- % -------- % -------- % -------- % Note: report the numbers DAP and MAP specific amounts, but these numbers are estimates the numbers unique people using our products and are subject statistical variances and errors. While expect the error margin for these estimates vary from period period, estimate that such margin generally will approximately % our worldwide MAP. our scale, very difficult attribute multiple user accounts within and across products individual people, and possible that the actual numbers unique people using our products may vary significantly from our estimates, potentially beyond our estimated error margins. For additional information, see the section entitled "Limitations Key Metrics and Other Data" this Annual Report Form - . the third quarter , updated our Family metrics calculations maintain calibration our models against recent user survey data, and estimate such update contributed aggregate approximately million DAP our reported worldwide DAP September . Beginning the fourth quarter , our Family metrics longer include Messenger Kids users. Worldwide DAP increased % billion average during December from billion during December . • Monthly Active People (MAP). define monthly active person registered and logged- user one more Family products who visited least one these Family products through mobile device application using web mobile browser the last days the date measurement. not require people use common identifier link their accounts use multiple products our Family, and therefore must seek attribute multiple user accounts within and across products individual people. Our calculations MAP rely upon complex techniques, algorithms, and machine learning models that seek estimate the underlying number unique people using one more these products, including matching user accounts within individual product and across multiple products when believe they are attributable single person, and counting such group accounts one person. these techniques and models require significant judgment, are developed based internal reviews limited samples user accounts, and are calibrated against user survey data, there necessarily some margin error our estimates. view MAP measure the size our global active community people using our products. For additional information, see the section entitled "Limitations Key Metrics and Other Data" this Annual Report Form - . Note: report the numbers DAP and MAP specific amounts, but these numbers are estimates the numbers unique people using our products and are subject statistical variances and errors. While expect the error margin for these estimates vary from period period, estimate that such margin generally will approximately % our worldwide MAP. our scale, very difficult attribute multiple user accounts within and across products individual people, and possible that the actual numbers unique people using our products may vary significantly from our estimates, potentially beyond our estimated error margins. For additional information, see the section entitled "Limitations Key Metrics and Other Data" this Annual Report Form - . the third quarter , updated our Family metrics calculations maintain calibration our models against recent user survey data, and estimate such update contributed aggregate approximately million MAP our reported worldwide MAP September . Beginning the fourth quarter , our Family metrics longer include Messenger Kids users. December , , had billion MAP, increase % from billion December , . • Average Revenue Per Person (ARPP). define ARPP our total revenue during given quarter, divided the average the number MAP the beginning and end the quarter. While ARPP includes all sources revenue, the number MAP used this calculation only includes users our Family products described the definition MAP above. estimate that the share revenue from users who are not also MAP was not material. ARPP: $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Revenue Non- Revenue Note: Non-advertising revenue includes revenue generated from the delivery consumer hardware products and FoA Other revenue, which consists revenue from WhatsApp Business Platform, net fees receive from developers using our Payments infrastructure, and revenue from various other sources. Beginning with our Quarterly Report Form - filed for the first quarter , intend report ARPP based DAP instead MAP. Our annual worldwide ARPP , which represents the sum quarterly ARPP during such period, was $ , increase % from . Trends Our Facebook User Metrics The numbers for our key Facebook metrics, our DAUs, MAUs, and average revenue per user (ARPU), not include users Instagram, WhatsApp, our other products, unless they would otherwise qualify DAUs MAUs, respectively, based their other activities Facebook. Trends the number users affect our revenue and financial results influencing the number ads are able show, the value our ads marketers, well our expenses and capital expenditures. Substantially all our daily and monthly active users ( defined below) access Facebook mobile devices. • Daily Active Users (DAUs). define daily active user registered and logged- Facebook user who visited Facebook through our website mobile device, used our Messenger application (and also registered Facebook user), given day. view DAUs, and DAUs percentage MAUs, measures user engagement Facebook. ---- DAU MAU: -- % ------ % ------ % ------ % ------ % ------ % ------ % ----- % ------ % - - - DAU MAU: -- % ----- % ------ % ------ % ------ % ----- % ------ % ------ % ------ % ---- DAU MAU: - % ------ % ------ % ----- % ------ % ------ % ------ % ------ % ------ % --- - - DAU MAU: -- % ----- % ------ % ------ % ------ % ----- % ------ % ------ % ------ % ---- DAU MAU: - % ------ % ------ % ----- % ------ % ------ % ------ % ------ % ------ % --- Note: For purposes reporting DAUs, MAUs, and ARPU geographic region, Europe includes all users Russia and Turkey and Rest World includes all users Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East. Worldwide DAUs increased % billion aver age during December from billion during December . Users India, Bangladesh, and Nigeria repr esented the top three sources growth DAUs during December , relative the same period . • Monthly Active Users (MAUs). define monthly active user registered and logged- Facebook user who visited Facebook through our website mobile device, used our Messenger application (and also registered Facebook user), the last days the date measurement. MAUs are measure the size our global active user community Facebook. December , , had billion MAUs, increase % from December , . Users India, Bangladesh, and Nigeria represented the top three sources growth , relative the same period . Trends Our Monetization Facebook User Geography calculate our revenue user geography based our estimate the geography which impressions are delivered, virtual and digital goods are purchased, consumer hardware products are shipped. define ARPU our total revenue given geography during given quarter, divided the average the number MAUs the geography the beginning and end the quarter. While ARPU includes all sources revenue, the number MAUs used this calculation only includes users Facebook and Messenger described the definition MAU above. While the share revenue from users who are not also Facebook Messenger MAUs has grown over time, estimate that revenue from users who are Facebook Messenger MAUs represents the substantial majority our total revenue. See "Average Revenue Per Person (ARPP)" above for our estimates trends our monetization our Family products. The geography our users affects our revenue and financial results because currently monetize users different geographies different average rates. Our revenue and ARPU regions such United States & Canada and Europe are relatively higher primarily due the size and maturity those online and mobile advertising markets. For example, ARPU the United States & Canada region was more than times higher than the Asia-Pacific region. --- ARPU: -- $ --- $ --- $ --- $ --- $ ---- $ ---- $ ---- $ --- $ - - -- ARPU: -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ --- $ -- $ --- $ --- $ --- $ -------- ARPU: -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ --- $ -- $ --- $ --- $ - ARPU: -- $ ---- $ ---- $ ---- $ ---- $ ---- $ ---- $ ----- $ ---- $ ------- ARPU: -- $ ----- $ ---- $ ---- $ ---- $ ---- $ ---- $ ----- $ ---- $ Revenue Non- Revenue Note: Non-advertising revenue includes revenue generated from the delivery consumer hardware products and FoA Other revenue, which consists revenue from WhatsApp Business Platform, net fees receive from developers using our Payments infrastructure, and revenue from various other sources. Our revenue user geography the charts above geographically apportioned based our estimation the geographic location our users when they perform revenue-generating activity. This allocation differs from our revenue disaggregated geography disclosure Note — Revenue our consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplemental Data" where revenue geographically apportioned based the addresses our customers. Our annual worldwide ARPU , which represents the sum quarterly ARPU during such period, was $ , increase % from . For , ARPU increased % Europe, % Rest World, % Asia-Pacific, and % United States & Canada. User growth was mostly geographies with relatively lower ARPU, such Asia‑Pacific and Rest World. expect that user growth the future will primarily concentrated those regions where ARPU relatively lower, such that worldwide ARPU may continue increase slower rate relative ARPU any geographic region particular period, potentially decrease even ARPU increases each geographic region. Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared accordance with GAAP. The preparation these consolidated financial statements requires make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. ongoing basis, evaluate our accounting estimates based historical experience and various other assumptions that believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The actual impact our financial performance could differ from these estimates under different assumptions conditions. accounting estimate considered critical both ( ) the nature the estimates assumptions material due the levels subjectivity and judgment involved, and ( ) the impact within reasonable range outcomes the estimates and assumptions material our consolidated financial statements. believe that the estimates and assumptions associated with loss contingencies, income taxes, and valuation assets, when applicable, have the greatest potential impact our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, consider these our critical accounting estimates. For further information all our significant accounting policies, see Note — Summary Significant Accounting Policies the accompanying notes the consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . Loss Contingencies are involved legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, tax government inquiries and investigations that arise the ordinary course business. Certain these matters include speculative claims for substantial indeterminate amounts damages. Additionally, are required comply with various legal and regulatory obligations around the world, and regularly become subject new laws and regulations the jurisdictions which operate. The requirements for complying with these obligations may uncertain and subject interpretation and enforcement regulatory and other authorities, and any failure comply with such obligations could eventually lead asserted legal regulatory action. With respect these matters, asserted and unasserted, evaluate the associated developments regular basis and accrue liability when believe that both probable that loss has been incurred and the amount can reasonably estimated. review the developments our contingencies that could affect the amount the provisions that have been previously recorded, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed. make adjustments our provisions and changes our disclosures accordingly reflect the merits our defenses and the impact negotiations, settlements, regulatory proceedings, rulings, advice legal counsel, and updated information. Significant judgment required determine the probability loss and the estimated amount loss, including when and the probability and estimate has changed for asserted and unasserted matters. Certain factors, particular, have resulted significant changes these estimates and judgments prior quarters based updated information available. For example, certain jurisdictions where operate, fines and penalties may the result new laws and preliminary interpretations regarding the basis assessing damages, which may make difficult estimate what such fines and penalties would amount successfully asserted against . addition, certain government inquiries and investigations, such matters before our lead European Union privacy regulator, the Irish Data Protection Commission, are subject review other regulatory bodies before decisions are finalized, which can lead significant changes the outcome inquiry. result these and other factors, reasonably expect that our estimates and judgments with respect our contingencies may continue revised future quarters. The ultimate outcome these matters, such whether the likelihood loss remote, reasonably possible, probable and when the reasonably possible range loss estimable, inherently uncertain. Therefore, one more these matters were resolved against for amounts excess management\' estimates losses, our results operations and financial condition, including particular reporting period which any such outcome becomes probable and estimable, could materially adversely affected. See Note — Commitments and Contingencies and Note — Income Taxes the accompanying notes the consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Part , Item , "Legal Proceedings" this Annual Report Form - for additional information regarding these contingencies. Income Taxes are subject income taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties the application accounting principles and complex tax laws. Our actual and forecasted income (loss) before provision subject change due economic, political and other conditions and significant judgment required determining our ability recognize our net deferred tax assets. recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only believe that more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities based the technical merits the position. These uncertain tax positions include our estimates for transfer pricing that have been developed based upon analyses appropriate arms-length prices. Similarly, our estimates related uncertain tax positions concerning research and development tax credits are based assessment whether our available documentation corroborating the nature our activities supporting the tax credits will sufficient. Although believe that have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions (including net interest and penalties), can provide assurance that the final tax outcome these matters will not materially different, significant judgment required evaluating and estimating our provision for income taxes. make adjustments these reserves accordance with the income tax accounting guidance when facts and circumstances change, such the closing tax audit the refinement estimate. the extent that the final tax outcome these matters different from the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes the period which such determination made, and could have material impact our financial condition and operating results. Valuation Assets The valuation and impairment assessment certain assets, including recoverability, requires significant judgment and assumptions such estimation future cash flows, discount rates, market data comparable assets and companies, holding period and residual value asset groups, among others. Impairment testing for long-lived-assets, including property and equipment and operating lease right- -use assets, occurs whenever events circumstances indicate that the carrying amount such assets may not recoverable compared the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate from the use and eventual disposition. The impairment test performed the asset group level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent the cash flows other assets and liabilities. When the test results indicate that the carrying amount long-lived assets not recoverable, the carrying amount such assets reduced fair value. Impairment testing for non-marketable equity securities without readily determinable fair values accounted for using the measurement alternative, performed each reporting date determine whether there are triggering events for impairment. Such qualitative assessment considers factors such , but not limited , the investee\' financial condition and business outlook; industry and sector performance; regulatory, economic technological environment; operational and financing cash flows; and other relevant events and factors affecting the investee. When indicators impairment exist, estimate the fair value our non-marketable equity securities using the market approach and the income approach and recognize impairment loss our consolidated statements income the estimated fair value less than the carrying value. addition, for these non-marketable equity securities, determining whether non-marketable equity security issued the same issuer similar the non-marketable equity security hold may require judgment ( ) assessment differences rights and obligations associated with the instruments such voting rights, distribution rights and preferences, and conversion features, and ( ) adjustments the observable price for differences such , but not limited , rights and obligations, control premium, liquidity, principal most advantageous markets. The identification observable transactions will depend the timely reporting these transactions from our investee companies, which may occur period subsequent when the transactions take place. Therefore, our fair value adjustment for these observable transactions may occur period subsequent when the transaction actually occurred. Components Results Operations Revenue Family Apps (FoA) Advertising. generate substantially all our revenue from advertising. Our advertising revenue generated displaying products Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, and third-party mobile applications. Marketers pay for products either directly through their relationships with advertising agencies resellers, based the number impressions delivered the number actions, such clicks, taken users. recognize revenue from the display impression-based ads the contracted period which the impressions are delivered. Impressions are considered delivered when displayed user. recognize revenue from the delivery action-based ads the period which user takes the action the marketer contracted for. The number ads show subject methodological changes continue evolve our ads business and the structure our ads products. particular, the ads show may vary product (for example, our video and Reels products are not currently monetized the same rate our feed Stories products), and from time time increase decrease the number frequency ads show part our product and monetization strategies. calculate average price per total advertising revenue divided the number ads delivered, representing the average price paid per marketer regardless their desired objective such impression action. For advertising revenue arrangements where are not the principal, recognize revenue net basis. Other revenue. Other revenue consists revenue from WhatsApp Business Platform, net fees receive from developers using our Payments infrastructure and revenue from various other sources. Reality Labs ( ) revenue generated from the delivery consumer hardware products, such Meta Quest, wearables, and related software and content. Cost Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost revenue. Our cost revenue consists expenses associated with the delivery and distribution our products. These mainly include expenses related the operation our data centers and technical infrastructure, such depreciation expense from servers, network infrastructure and buildings, well payroll and related expenses which include share-based compensation for employees our operations teams, and energy and bandwidth costs. Cost revenue also includes costs associated with partner arrangements, including traffic acquisition costs and credit card and other fees related processing customer transactions; inventory costs, which consist cost products sold and estimated losses non-cancelable contractual commitments; and content costs. Research and development. Research and development expenses consist mostly payroll and related expenses which include share-based compensation, technology development costs, facilities-related costs for employees our engineering and technical teams who are responsible for developing new products well improving existing products, and restructuring charges. Marketing and sales. Marketing and sales expenses consist mainly marketing and promotional expenses well payroll and related expenses which include share-based compensation for our employees engaged sales, sales support, marketing, business development, and customer service functions. Our marketing and sales expenses also include professional services such content reviewers support our community and product operations and restructuring charges. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily legal-related costs, which include estimated fines, settlements, other losses connection with legal and related matters, well other legal fees; payroll and related expenses which include share-based compensation for certain our executives well our legal, finance, human resources, corporate communications and policy, and other administrative employees; other taxes, such digital services taxes and other non-income-based tax levies; professional services and restructuring charges. Results Operations this section, discuss the results our operations for the year ended December , compared the year ended December , . For discussion the year ended December , compared the year ended December , , please refer Part , Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" our Annual Report Form - for the year ended December , . The following table sets forth our consolidated statements income data ( millions): Year Ended December , Revenue $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Marketing and sales , , , General and administrative , , , Total costs and expenses , , , Income from operations , , , Interest and other income (expense), net ( ) Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , The following table sets forth our consolidated statements income data ( percentage revenue) ( ) : Year Ended December , Revenue % % % Costs and expenses: Cost revenue Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total costs and expenses Income from operations Interest and other income (expense), net — — Income before provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income % % % _________________________ ( ) Percentages have been rounded for presentation purposes and may differ from unrounded results. Revenue The following table sets forth our revenue source and segment: Year Ended December , % change % change ( millions, except percentages) Advertising $ , $ , $ , % ( ) % Other revenue , % % Family Apps , , , % ( ) % Reality Labs , , , ( ) % ( ) % Total revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( ) % Family Apps FoA revenue increased $ billion, %, compared . The increase was almost entirely driven advertising revenue. Advertising Advertising revenue increased $ billion, %, compared due increase the number ads delivered, partially offset decrease the average price per . , the number ads delivered increased %, compared with % increase ads impressions grew all regions during , especially Asia-Pacific and Rest World. The increase the ads delivered during was driven increases the number and frequency ads displayed across our products and increase users. , the average price per decreased %, compared with decrease % . The decrease average price per was driven increase the number ads delivered, especially geographies and products, such Reels, that monetize lower rates. While the average price per declined year-over-year, believe the improvements our targeting and measurement tools have had favorable impact our performance and advertising demand. Other factors are also discussed the section entitled "—Executive Overview Full Year Results." addition, year-over-year advertising revenue growth for the full year was driven mainly marketer spending online commerce, which benefited from marketers based China, consumer packaged goods, and entertainment and media. anticipate that future advertising revenue will driven combination price and the number ads delivered. Other revenue FoA other revenue increased $ million, %, compared . The increase was mainly driven WhatsApp Business Platform revenue. Reality Labs revenue decreased $ million, %, compared . The decrease revenue was mostly driven net decrease the volume Meta Quest sales. Revenue Seasonality Revenue traditionally seasonally strong the fourth quarter each year due part seasonal holiday demand. believe that this seasonality both advertising revenue and consumer hardware sales affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect significant growth revenue between the third and fourth quarters and decline between the fourth and subsequent first quarters. For instance, our total revenue increased %, %, and % between the third and fourth quarters , , and , respectively, while total revenue for the first quarters , , and declined %, %, and % compared the fourth quarters , , and respectively. Foreign Exchange Impact Revenue Changes foreign exchange rates had favorable impact our total revenue the full year compared the same period . had translated revenue for the full year using the prior year\' monthly exchange rates for our settlement billing currencies other than the . dollar, our total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Using these constant rates, total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $ million and $ million lower than actual total revenue and advertising revenue, respectively, for the full year . Using the same constant rates, full year total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $ billion and $ billion higher than actual total revenue and advertising revenue, respectively, for the full year . Cost revenue Year Ended December , % change % change ( millions, except percentages) Cost revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Percentage revenue % % % Cost revenue increased $ million, %, compared . The increase was primarily driven higher operational expenses related our data centers and technical infrastructure, partially offset decrease data center abandonment charges related restructuring and lower content costs. See Note — Restructuring the notes the consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - for additional information regarding restructuring charges. Research and development Year Ended December , % change % change ( millions, except percentages) Research and development $ , $ , $ , % % Percentage revenue % % % Research and development expenses increased $ billion, %, compared . The increase was primarily from higher payroll and related expenses driven increase share-based compensation expenses. Marketing and sales Year Ended December , % change % change ( millions, except percentages) Marketing and sales $ , $ , $ , ( ) % % Percentage revenue % % % Marketing and sales expenses decreased $ billion, %, compared . The decrease was mainly due decreases marketing and promotional expenses well payroll and related expenses. The payroll and related expenses decreased result decrease employee headcount from December , December , our marketing and sales functions. General and administrative Year Ended December , % change % change ( millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ , $ , $ , ( ) % % Percentage revenue % % % General and administrative expenses decreased $ million, %, compared . The decrease was mainly due lower payroll and related expenses, result decrease employee headcount from December , December , our general and administrative functions. Segment profitability The following table sets forth income (loss) from operations segment: Year Ended December , % change % change ( millions, except percentages) Family Apps $ , $ , $ , % ( ) % Reality Labs ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) % ( ) % Total income from operations $ , $ , $ , % ( ) % Family Apps FoA income from operations increased $ billion, %, compared . The increase was mostly driven higher advertising revenue and decrease marketing and sales expenses. Reality Labs loss from operations increased $ billion, %, compared . The increase loss was mainly due increase payroll and related expenses and decrease revenue. Interest and other income (expense), net Year Ended December , % change % change ( millions, except percentages) Interest income $ , $ $ % ( ) % Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) % Foreign currency exchange losses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) % % Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) % ( ) % Interest and other income (expense), net $ $ ( ) $ ( ) % Interest and other income (expense), net increased $ million compared . The increase interest income was due combination higher interest rates and higher balances, compared the same period . Changes other income (expense), net were mostly related gains (losses) recognized for our equity investments. Provision for income taxes Year Ended December , % change % change ( millions, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , % ( ) % Effective tax rate % % % Our provision for income taxes increased $ billion, %, compared , due increase income before provision for income taxes. Our effective tax rate decreased compared , primarily due excess tax benefits recognized from share-based compensation and the effect additional guidance issued the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) providing temporary relief foreign tax credits. This was partially offset decrease the proportion . tax benefits from foreign-derived intangible income relative income before provision for income taxes and additional clarification issued the IRS September regarding research and development expenses subject mandatory capitalization and amortization. Effective Tax Rate Items . Our effective tax rate the future will depend upon the proportion between the following items and income before provision for income taxes: . tax benefits from foreign-derived intangible income, tax effects from share-based compensation, research tax credit, tax effects from capital losses not expected utilized, restructurings, settlement tax contingency items, tax effects changes our business, and the effects changes tax law. The accounting for share-based compensation may increase decrease our effective tax rate based upon the difference between our share-based compensation expense and the deductions taken our tax return, which depend upon the stock price the time employee award vesting. our stock price remains constant the January , price, and absent any changes . tax law, expect our effective tax rate for the full year the mid-teens. This includes the effects the mandatory capitalization and amortization research and development expenses incurred , required the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act). The mandatory capitalization requirement increased our cash tax liabilities materially but also decreased our effective tax rate due increasing the foreign-derived intangible income deduction. the mandatory capitalization deferred, our effective tax rate could higher when compared current law and our cash tax liabilities could lower. Unrecognized Tax Benefits . December , , had net uncertain tax positions $ billion which were accrued other liabilities. These unrecognized tax benefits were predominantly accrued for uncertainties related transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries, which includes licensing intellectual property, providing services and other transactions, well for uncertainties regarding the utilization our research tax credits. The ultimate settlement the liabilities will depend upon resolution tax audits, litigation, events that would otherwise change the assessment such items. Based upon the status litigation described below and the current status tax audits various jurisdictions, not anticipate material change such amounts within the next months. See Note — Income Taxes the notes the consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - for additional information regarding income tax contingencies. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash generated from operations. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are comprised cash deposit with banks, time deposits, money market funds, . government and agency securities, and investment grade corporate debt securities. part our cash management strategy, concentrate cash deposits with large financial institutions and our investment holdings are diversified highly rated securities. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $ billion December , , increase $ billion from December , . The increase was mostly due $ billion cash generated from operations, and $ billion net proceeds from the issuance fixed-rate senior unsecured notes (the Notes) May . These increases were partially offset $ billion for capital expenditures, including principal payments finance leases, $ billion for repurchases our Class common stock, and $ billion taxes paid related net share settlement employee restricted stock unit (RSU) awards. The following table presents our cash flows ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ , $ , Net cash used investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash used financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Cash Provided Operating Activities Cash provided operating activities during mostly consisted $ billion net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, such $ billion share-based compensation expense and $ billion depreciation and amortization expense, well $ billion favorable changes working capital. The increase cash flows from operating activities during compared was mostly increase cash collection from our customers driven the increase revenue, and decrease payments our vendors. Cash Used Investing Activities Cash used investing activities during mostly consisted $ billion net purchases property and equipment continued invest data centers, servers, and network infrastructure, partially offset $ billion net proceeds from maturities and sales marketable debt securities. The decrease cash used investing activities during compared was mostly due decrease purchases property and equipment. anticipate making capital expenditures approximately $ billion $ billion . Cash Used Financing Activities Cash used financing activities during mostly consisted $ billion for repurchases our Class common stock and $ billion taxes paid related net share settlement RSUs, partially offset $ billion proceeds from the issuance the Notes May . The decrease cash used financing activities during compared was mainly due decrease cash paid for repurchases our Class common stock, partially offset increase taxes paid related net share settlement employee RSU awards and decrease net proceeds from our debt offerings. Free Cash Flow addition other financial measures presented accordance with . GAAP, monitor free cash flow (FCF) non-GAAP measure manage our business, make planning decisions, evaluate our performance, and allocate resources. define FCF net cash provided operating activities reduced net purchases property and equipment and principal payments finance leases. believe that FCF one the key financial indicators our business performance over the long term and provides useful information regarding how cash provided operating activities compares the property and equipment investments required maintain and grow our business. have chosen our definition for FCF because believe that this methodology can provide useful supplemental information help investors better understand underlying trends our business. use FCF discussions with our senior management and board directors. FCF has limitations analytical tool, and you should not consider isolation substitute for analysis other GAAP financial measures, such net cash provided operating activities. FCF not intended represent our residual cash flow available for discretionary expenses. Some the limitations FCF are: • FCF does not reflect our future contractual commitments; and • other companies our industry present similarly titled measures differently than , limiting their usefulness comparative measures. Management compensates for the inherent limitations associated with using the FCF measure through disclosure such limitations, presentation our financial statements accordance with GAAP, and reconciliation FCF the most directly comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided operating activities, presented below. The following reconciliation FCF the most comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided operating activities ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Principal payments finance leases ( , ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow $ , $ , $ , Material Cash Requirements currently anticipate that our available funds and cash flow from operations and financing activities will sufficient meet our operational cash needs and fund our share repurchases and dividend payments for least the next months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. continuously evaluate our liquidity and capital resources, including our access external capital, ensure can finance our future capital requirements. Leases and Contractual Commitments Our operating lease obligations mostly include offices, data centers, and colocations. Our finance lease obligations include certain network infrastructure. Our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts did not materially change our operating lease obligations. Our contractual commitments are primarily related our investments servers, network infrastructure, and consumer hardware products Reality Labs. Long-term Debt December , , had outstanding long-term debt the form senior unsecured notes for aggregate principal amount $ billion. These notes were issued multiple series, which mature from through . Short-term and long-term future interest payments obligations December , are $ million and $ billion, respectively. Net proceeds from the offerings are used for general corporate purposes, which may include, but are not limited , capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividend payments, acquisitions investments. Share Repurchase Our board directors has authorized share repurchase program our Class common stock, which commenced January and does not have expiration date. , repurchased and subsequently retired million shares our Class common stock for aggregate amount $ billion, which includes the % excise tax accruals result the Inflation Reduction Act . December , , $ billion remained available and authorized for repurchases. January , additional $ billion repurchases was authorized under this program. Dividend February , , announced the initiation our first ever cash dividend program. This cash dividend $ per share common stock equivalent $ per share annual basis. The first cash dividend will paid March , all holders record common stock the close business February , . Subject legally available funds and future declaration our board directors, currently intend continue pay quarterly cash dividend our outstanding Class common stock and Class common stock. The declaration and payment future dividends the sole discretion our board directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, available cash, and current and anticipated cash needs. Taxes Cash paid for income taxes was $ billion for the year ended December , . December , , had taxes payable $ billion related one-time transition tax payable incurred result the Tax Act, which $ million due within one year. permitted the Tax Act, will pay the transition tax annual interest-free installments through . Our other liabilities also include $ billion related the uncertain tax positions December , . Due uncertainties the timing the completion tax audits, the timing the resolution these positions uncertain and are unable make reasonably reliable estimate the timing payments. Loss Contingencies are involved legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, tax government inquiries and investigations. record liability when believe that both probable that liability has been incurred, and that the amount can reasonably estimated. determine there reasonable possibility that may incur loss and the loss range loss can estimated, disclose the possible loss the accompanying notes the consolidated financial statements the extent material. Significant judgment required determine both probability and the estimated amount loss. Such matters are inherently unpredictable and subject significant uncertainties, some which are beyond our control. Should any these estimates and assumptions change prove incorrect, could have material impact our results operations, financial position, and cash flows. See Note — Leases, Note — Long-term Debt, Note — Commitments and Contingencies, Note — Stockholders\' Equity, and Note — Income Taxes the notes the consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , and "Legal Proceedings" contained Part , Item this Annual Report Form - for additional information regarding leases and contractual commitments, debt, taxes, and contingencies. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For information recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note — Summary Significant Accounting Policies the accompanying notes the consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk are exposed market risks, including changes foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity price risk. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk have foreign currency risks related our revenue and operating expenses denominated currencies other than the . dollar, primarily the Euro. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, have the past, and may the future, negatively affect our revenue and other operating results expressed . dollars. See Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations — Foreign Exchange Impact Revenue section included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - for additional information. have experienced and will continue experience fluctuations our net income result transaction gains losses related remeasuring monetary asset and liability balances that are denominated currencies other than the functional currency the entities which they are recorded. this time, have not entered into, but the future may enter into, derivatives other financial instruments attempt hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. difficult predict the effect hedging activities would have our results operations. Foreign currency exchange net losses $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. Interest Rate Sensitivity Our exposure changes interest rates relates primarily interest income and market value our cash equivalents, marketable debt securities, and the fair value our long-term debt. Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable debt securities consist cash, time deposits, money market funds, . government securities, . government agency securities, and investment grade corporate debt securities. Our investment policy and strategy are focused preservation capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. Changes . interest rates affect the interest earned our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and the market value those securities. hypothetical basis point increase market interest rates would have resulted decrease $ million and $ million the market value our available-for-sale debt securities and cash equivalents December , and , respectively. Any realized gains losses resulting from such interest rate changes and from the current unrealized gains losses would only occur sold the investments prior maturity. December , and , also had aggregate principal amounts fixed-rate senior notes (the Notes) outstanding $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Since our Notes bear interest fixed rates and are carried amortized cost, fluctuations interest rates not have any impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value the Notes will fluctuate with movements market interest rates, increasing periods declining interest rates and declining periods increasing interest rates. Equity Price Risk Our equity investments are non-marketable equity securities and are subject equity price risks that could have material impact the carrying value our holdings. Our non-marketable equity securities are investments privately-held companies without readily determinable fair values. elected account for substantially all our non-marketable equity securities using the measurement alternative, which cost, less any impairment, adjusted for changes fair value resulting from observable transactions for identical similar investments the same issuer. perform qualitative assessment each reporting date determine whether there are triggering events for impairment. The qualitative assessment considers factors such , but not limited , the investee\' financial condition and business outlook; industry and sector performance; economic technological environment; and other relevant events and factors affecting the investee. Valuations our non-marketable equity securities are complex due the lack readily available market data and observable transactions. Uncertainties the global economic climate and financial markets could adversely impact the valuation these companies invest and, therefore, result material impairment downward adjustment our investments. Our total non-marketable equity securities, which mostly consists our investment Jio Platforms Limited, had carrying value $ billion and $ billion December , and , respectively. For additional information, see Note — Summary Significant Accounting Policies, Note — Financial Instruments, Note — Non-marketable Equity Securities, and Note — Long-term Debt the notes the consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Part , Item , "Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Conditions and Results Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates" contained this Annual Report Form - . ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data META PLATFORMS, INC. INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm the Stockholders and the Board Directors Meta Platforms, Inc. Opinion the Financial Statements have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Meta Platforms, Inc. (the Company) December , and , the related consolidated statements income, comprehensive income, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , and the related notes (collectively referred the "consolidated financial statements"). our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position the Company December , and , and the results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company\' internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework), and our report dated February , , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\' financial statements based our audits. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement, whether due error fraud. Our audits included performing procedures assess the risks material misstatement the financial statements, whether due error fraud, and performing procedures that respond those risks. Such procedures included examining, test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall presentation the financial statements. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matters The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit the financial statements that were communicated required communicated the Audit & Risk Oversight Committee and that: ( ) relate accounts disclosures that are material the financial statements and ( ) involved our especially challenging, subjective complex judgments. The communication critical audit matters does not alter any way our opinion the consolidated financial statements, taken whole, and are not, communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions the critical audit matters the accounts disclosures which they relate. Loss Contingencies Description the Matter described Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company party various legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory government inquiries and investigations. The Company accrues liability when believes loss probable and the amount can reasonably estimated. addition, the Company believes reasonably possible that will incur loss some these cases, actions inquiries described above. When applicable, the Company discloses estimate the amount loss range possible loss that may incurred. However, for certain other matters, the Company discloses that the amount such losses range possible losses cannot reasonably estimated this time. Auditing the Company\' accounting for, and disclosure , these loss contingencies was especially challenging due the significant judgment required evaluate management\' assessments the likelihood loss, and their estimate the potential amount range such losses. How Addressed the Matter Our Audit obtained understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness controls over the identification and evaluation these matters, including controls relating the Company\' assessment the likelihood that loss will realized and their ability reasonably estimate the potential range possible losses. Our audit procedures included reading the minutes summary the meetings the committees the board directors, reading the proceedings, claims, and regulatory, government inquiries and investigations, summaries deemed appropriate, requesting and receiving internal and external legal counsel confirmation letters, meeting with internal and external legal counsel discuss the nature the various matters, and obtaining representations from management. also evaluated the appropriateness the related disclosures included Note the consolidated financial statements. Uncertain Tax Positions Description the Matter discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company has received certain notices from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) related transfer pricing agreements with the Company\' foreign subsidiaries for certain periods examined. The IRS has stated that will also apply its position tax years subsequent those examined. the IRS prevails its position, could result additional federal tax liability, plus interest and any penalties asserted. The Company uses judgment ( ) determine whether tax position\' technical merits are more-likely-than-not sustained and ( ) measure the amount tax benefit that qualifies for recognition. Auditing the Company\' accounting for, and disclosure , these uncertain tax positions was especially challenging due the significant judgment required assess management\' evaluation technical merits and the measurement the tax position based interpretations tax laws and legal rulings. How Addressed the Matter Our Audit obtained understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness controls over the Company\' process assess the technical merits tax positions related these transfer pricing agreements and measure the benefit those tax positions. part our audit procedures over the Company\' accounting for these positions, involved our tax professionals assist with our assessment the technical merits the Company\' tax positions. This included assessing the Company\' correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, evaluating income tax opinions other third-party advice obtained the Company, and requesting and receiving confirmation letters from third-party advisors. also used our knowledge , and experience with, the application international and local income tax laws the relevant income tax authorities evaluate the Company\' accounting for those tax positions. analyzed the Company\' assumptions and data used determine the amount the federal tax liability recognized and tested the mathematical accuracy the underlying data and calculations. also evaluated the appropriateness the related disclosures included Note the consolidated financial statements relation these matters. / / Ernst & Young LLP have served the Company\' auditor since . San Mateo, California February , Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm the Stockholders and the Board Directors Meta Platforms, Inc. Opinion Internal Control over Financial Reporting have audited Meta Platforms, Inc.\' internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework), (the COSO criteria). our opinion, Meta Platforms, Inc. (the Company) maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets the Company December , and , the related consolidated statements income, comprehensive income, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , and the related notes and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion The Company\' management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management\' Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\' internal control over financial reporting based our audit. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations Internal Control Over Financial Reporting company\' internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\' internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\' assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Mateo, California February , META PLATFORMS, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except for number shares and par value) December , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, net , , Prepaid expenses and other current assets , , Total current assets , , Non-marketable equity securities , , Property and equipment, net , , Operating lease right- -use assets , , Intangible assets, net Goodwill , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\' equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Partners payable , Operating lease liabilities, current , , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , Total current liabilities , , Operating lease liabilities, non-current , , Long-term debt , , Other liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Common stock, $ par value; , million Class shares authorized, , million and , million shares issued and outstanding, December , and , respectively; , million Class shares authorized, million and million shares issued and outstanding, December , and , respectively — — Additional paid- capital , , Accumulated other comprehensive loss ( , ) ( , ) Retained earnings , , Total stockholders\' equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. META PLATFORMS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS INCOME ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December , Revenue $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Marketing and sales , , , General and administrative , , , Total costs and expenses , , , Income from operations , , , Interest and other income (expense), net ( ) Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted-average shares used compute earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders: Basic , , , Diluted , , , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. META PLATFORMS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Year Ended December , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income (loss): Change foreign currency translation adjustment, net tax ( , ) ( , ) Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale investments and other, net tax ( , ) ( ) Comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. META PLATFORMS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( millions) Class and Class Common Stock Additional Paid- Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders\' Equity Shares Par Value Balances December , , $ — $ , $ $ , $ , Issuance common stock — — — — — Shares withheld related net share settlement ( ) — ( , ) — ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation — — , — — , Share repurchases ( ) — — — ( , ) ( , ) Other comprehensive loss — — — ( , ) — ( , ) Net income — — — — , , Balances December , , — , ( ) , , Issuance common stock — — — — — Shares withheld related net share settlement ( ) — ( , ) — ( ) ( , ) Share-based compensation — — , — — , Share repurchases ( ) — — — ( , ) ( , ) Other comprehensive loss — — — ( , ) — ( , ) Net income — — — — , , Balances December , , — , ( , ) , , Issuance common stock — — — — — Shares withheld related net share settlement ( ) — ( , ) — ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation — — , — — , Share repurchases ( ) — — — ( , ) ( , ) Other comprehensive income — — — , — , Net income — — — — , , Balances December , , $ — $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. META PLATFORMS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , Cash flows from operating activities Net income $ , $ , $ , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash provided operating activities: Depreciation and amortization , , , Share-based compensation , , , Deferred income taxes ( , ) Impairment charges for facilities consolidation, net , , — Data center assets abandonment ( ) , — Other ( ) Changes assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( , ) ( , ) Prepaid expenses and other current assets ( , ) Other assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable , Partners payable ( ) ( ) Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , , Other liabilities Net cash provided operating activities , , , Cash flows from investing activities Purchases property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds relating property and equipment Purchases marketable debt securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sales and maturities marketable debt securities , , , Acquisitions businesses and intangible assets ( ) ( , ) ( ) Other investing activities ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cash flows from financing activities Taxes paid related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases Class common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from issuance long-term debt, net , , — Principal payments finance leases ( , ) ( ) ( ) Other financing activities ( ) Net cash used financing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Effect exchange rate changes cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash ( ) ( ) Net increase (decrease) cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash , ( , ) ( , ) Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash beginning the period , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash end the period $ , $ , $ , Reconciliation cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash the consolidated balance sheets Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , $ , Restricted cash, included prepaid expenses and other current assets Restricted cash, included other assets Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ , $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. META PLATFORMS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , Supplemental cash flow data Cash paid for income taxes, net $ , $ , $ , Cash paid for interest, net amounts capitalized $ $ — $ — Non-cash investing and financing activities: Property and equipment accounts payable and accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ , $ , $ , Acquisition businesses accrued expenses and other current liabilities and other liabilities $ $ $ Other current assets through financing arrangement accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ $ $ Repurchases Class common stock accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ $ $ See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. META PLATFORMS, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note . Summary Significant Accounting Policies Organization and Description Business were incorporated Delaware July . Our mission give people the power build community and bring the world closer together. All our products, including our apps, share the vision helping bring the metaverse life. report our financial results based two reportable segments: Family Apps (FoA) and Reality Labs ( ). The segment information aligns with how the chief operating decision maker (CODM), who our chief executive officer (CEO), reviews and manages the business. generate substantially all our revenue from advertising. Basis Presentation prepared the consolidated financial statements accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Meta Platforms, Inc., its subsidiaries where have controlling financial interests, and any variable interest entities for which are deemed the primary beneficiary. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates Preparation consolidated financial statements conformity with GAAP requires the use estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. These estimates form the basis for judgments make about the carrying values our assets and liabilities, which are not readily apparent from other sources. base our estimates and judgments historical information and various other assumptions that believe are reasonable under the circumstances. GAAP requires make estimates and judgments several areas, including, but not limited , those related loss contingencies, income taxes, valuation long-lived assets and their associated estimated useful lives, valuation non-marketable equity securities, revenue recognition, valuation goodwill, credit losses available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities and accounts receivable, and fair value financial instruments and leases. These estimates are based management\' knowledge about current events, interpretation regulations, and expectations about actions may undertake the future. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Revenue Recognition recognize revenue under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Revenue From Contracts With Customers . Revenue recognized when control the promised goods services transferred our customers, amount that reflects the consideration expect entitled exchange for those goods services. Sales commissions pay connection with contracts are expensed when incurred because the amortization period one year less. These costs are recorded within marketing and sales our consolidated statements income. not disclose the value unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with original expected length one year less. Revenue includes sales and usage‑based taxes, except for cases where are acting pass‑through agent. Advertising Revenue Advertising revenue generated displaying products Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, and third-party mobile applications. Marketers pay for products either directly through their relationships with advertising agencies resellers, based the number impressions delivered the number actions, such clicks, taken our users. recognize revenue from the display impression-based ads the contracted period which the impressions are delivered. Impressions are considered delivered when displayed users. recognize revenue from the delivery action-based ads the period which user takes the action the marketer contracted for. general, report advertising revenue gross basis, since control the advertising inventory before transferred our customers. Our control evidenced our sole ability monetize the advertising inventory before transferred our customers. For revenue generated from arrangements that involve third-parties, evaluate whether are the principal, and report revenue gross basis, the agent, and report revenue net basis. this assessment, consider obtain control the specified goods services before they are transferred the customer, well other indicators such the party primarily responsible for fulfillment, inventory risk, and discretion establishing price. may accept lower consideration than the amount promised per the contract for certain revenue transactions and certain customers may receive cash-based incentives, credits, refunds, which are accounted for variable consideration when estimating the amount revenue recognize. estimate these amounts and reduce revenue based the amounts expected provided customers. believe that there will not significant changes our estimates variable consideration. Reality Labs Revenue revenue generated from the delivery consumer hardware products, such Meta Quest, wearables, and related software and content. Revenue recognized the time control the products transferred customers, which generally the time delivery, amount that reflects the consideration expects entitled exchange for the products. Other Revenue Other revenue consists revenue from WhatsApp Business Platform, net fees receive from developers using our Payments infrastructure, and revenue from various other sources. Cost Revenue Our cost revenue consists expenses associated with the delivery and distribution our products. These mainly include expenses related the operation our data centers and technical infrastructure, such depreciation expense from servers, network infrastructure and buildings, well payroll and related expenses which include share-based compensation for employees our operations teams, and energy and bandwidth costs. Cost revenue also includes costs associated with partner arrangements, including traffic acquisition costs and credit card and other fees related processing customer transactions; inventory costs, which consist cost products sold and estimated losses non-cancelable contractual commitments; and content costs. Content Costs Our content costs are mostly related payments content providers from whom license video and music increase engagement the platform. pay fees these content providers based revenue generated, flat fee, both. For licensed video, expense the cost per title when the title accepted and available for viewing the capitalization criteria are not met. Video content costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material date. For licensed music, expense the license fees over the contractual license period. pay fees music partners based revenue generated, minimum guaranteed fees, flat fees, combination thereof. Expensed content costs are included cost revenue our consolidated statements income. Software Development Costs Software development costs, including costs develop software products the software component products marketed sold external users, are expensed before the software technology reach technological feasibility, which typically reached shortly before the release such products. Software development costs also include costs develop software used solely meet internal needs and applications used deliver our services. These software development costs meet the criteria for capitalization once the preliminary project stage complete and probable that the project will completed and the software will used perform the function intended. Software development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material date. Share-based Compensation Share-based compensation expense consists the company\' restricted stock units (RSUs) expense. RSUs granted employees are measured based the grant-date fair value. general, our RSUs vest over service period four years . Share-based compensation expense generally recognized based the straight-line basis over the requisite service period and forfeitures are accounted for they occur. Income Taxes are subject income taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties the application accounting principles and complex tax laws. record provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations using the asset and liability method. Under this method, recognize deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the expected future consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, well for loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates that are expected apply taxable income for the years which those tax assets and liabilities are expected realized settled. recognize the deferred income tax effects change tax rates the period the enactment. record valuation allowance reduce our deferred tax assets the net amount that believe more likely than not realized. consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels income, expectations and risks associated with estimates future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies assessing the need for valuation allowance. recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only believe that more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities based the technical merits the position. recognize interest and penalties related uncertain tax positions component the provision for income taxes. Advertising Expense Advertising costs are expensed when incurred and are included marketing and sales expenses our consolidated statements income. incurred advertising expenses $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. Employee Severance recognize one-time employee termination costs when notification occurs, based the regional requirements which the employee works. Cash and Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities, and Restricted Cash Cash and cash equivalents consist cash deposit with financial institutions globally and highly liquid investments with maturities days less from the date purchase. classify amounts transit from customer credit cards and payment service providers cash our consolidated balance sheets. hold investments marketable securities, consisting . government securities, . government agency securities, and investment grade corporate debt securities. classify our marketable securities available-for-sale (AFS) investments our current assets because they represent investments cash available for current operations. Our AFS investments are carried estimated fair value with any unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, included accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) stockholders\' equity. AFS debt securities with amortized cost basis excess estimated fair value are assessed determine what amount that difference, any, caused expected credit losses. Allowance for credit losses AFS debt securities are recognized charge interest and other income (expense), net our consolidated statements income, and any remaining unrealized losses, net taxes, are included accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) stockholders\' equity. The amounts credit losses recorded for the years ended December , , , and were not material. determine realized gains losses sale marketable securities specific identification method and include such gains losses interest and other income (expense), net our consolidated statements income. classify certain restricted cash balances, consisting primarily cash related insurance policies, and retention and indemnification holdback for our acquisitions, within prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets our consolidated balance sheets based upon the expected duration the restrictions. Non-marketable Equity Securities Our non-marketable equity securities are investments privately-held companies without readily determinable fair values. elected account for substantially all our non-marketable equity securities using the measurement alternative, which cost, less any impairment, adjusted for changes fair value resulting from observable transactions for identical similar investments the same issuer the respective transaction dates. periodically review our non-marketable equity securities for impairment. When indicators exist and the estimated fair value investment below the carrying amount, write down the investment fair value. The change carrying value, any, gains and losses resulting from the remeasurements are recognized interest and other income (expense), net our consolidated statements income. For additional information, see Note — Non-marketable Equity Securities. addition, also held other non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the equity method which were immaterial December , and . Fair Value Measurements apply fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis. define fair value the price that would received from selling asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, which are required recorded fair value, consider the principal most advantageous market which would transact and the market-based risk measurements assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability, such risks inherent valuation techniques, transfer restrictions and credit risk. Fair value estimated applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level input that available and significant the fair value measurement: Level - Quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. Level - Observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Level - Inputs that are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\' estimate assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. Our cash equivalents and marketable debt securities are classified within Level Level the fair value hierarchy because their fair value derived from quoted market prices alternative pricing sources and models utilizing observable market inputs. Certain other assets are classified within Level because factors used develop the estimated fair value are unobservable inputs that are not supported market activity. Our non-marketable equity securities accounted for using the measurement alternative are recorded fair value non-recurring basis. When indicators impairment exist observable price changes qualified transactions occur, the respective non-marketable equity security would classified within Level the fair value hierarchy because the valuation methods include combination the observable transaction price the transaction date and other unobservable inputs including volatility, rights, and obligations the securities hold. Accounts Receivable and Allowances Accounts receivable are recorded and carried the original invoiced amount less allowance for any potential uncollectible amounts. make estimates expected credit and collectibility trends for the allowance for credit losses and allowance for unbilled receivables based upon our assessment various factors, including historical experience, the age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality our customers, current economic conditions, reasonable and supportable forecasts future economic conditions, and other factors that may affect our ability collect from customers. Expected credit losses are recorded general and administrative expenses our consolidated statements income. December , and , the allowances for accounts receivable were immaterial. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, including finance leases, are depreciated and stated cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets the remaining lease term, whichever shorter. The estimated useful lives property and equipment and amortization periods finance lease right- -use (ROU) assets are described below: Property and Equipment Useful Life/ Amortization period Servers and network assets Four Five years Buildings years Equipment and other One years Finance lease right- -use assets Three years Leasehold improvements Lesser estimated useful life remaining lease term evaluate least annually the recoverability property and equipment for possible impairment whenever events circumstances indicate that the carrying amount such assets may not recoverable. such review indicates that the carrying amount property and equipment assets not recoverable, and the asset\' fair value less than the carrying amount, impairment charge recognized. Additionally, recorded abandonment charges and its related adjustments and for data center construction progress (CIP) assets under ASC Topic related our restructuring efforts. For additional information regarding our restructuring efforts, see Note — Restructuring. The useful lives our property and equipment are determined management when those assets are initially recognized and are routinely reviewed for the remaining estimated useful lives. Our current estimate useful lives represents the best estimate the useful lives based current facts and circumstances, but may differ from the actual useful lives due changes our business operations, changes the planned use assets, and technological advancements. When change the estimated useful life assumption for any asset, the remaining carrying amount the asset accounted for prospectively and depreciated amortized over the revised estimated useful life. Servers and network assets include property and equipment mostly our data centers, which used support production traffic. Land and assets held within CIP are not depreciated. CIP related the construction development property and equipment that have not yet been placed service for their intended use. capitalize interest our debt related certain eligible CIP assets and depreciate over the useful life the related assets. The cost maintenance and repairs expensed incurred. When assets are retired otherwise disposed , the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from their respective accounts, and gain loss such sale disposal reflected income from operations. Lease Obligations Our operating leases mostly comprise certain offices, data centers, and colocations. also have finance leases for certain network infrastructure. determine arrangement lease inception. Most our leases contain lease and non-lease components. Non-lease components include fixed payments for maintenance, utilities, real estate taxes, and management fees. combine fixed lease and non-lease components and account for them single lease component. Our lease agreements may contain variable costs such contingent rent escalations, common area maintenance, insurance, real estate taxes, other costs. These amounts are affected the Consumer Price Index, payments contingent energy production for renewable energy purchase arrangements, and maintenance and utilities. Such variable lease costs are expensed incurred our consolidated statements income. For certain colocation and equipment leases, apply portfolio approach effectively account for the operating lease ROU assets and lease liabilities. For leases with lease term greater than months, ROU assets and lease liabilities are recognized our consolidated balance sheets the commencement date based the present value the remaining fixed lease payments and includes only payments that are fixed and determinable the time commencement. Our lease terms may include options extend terminate the lease when reasonably certain that will exercise such options. When determining the probability exercising such options, consider contract-based, asset-based, entity-based, and market-based factors. not assume renewals our determination the lease term unless the renewals are deemed reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally not contain any material residual value guarantees material restrictive covenants. most our leases not provide implicit rate, use our incremental borrowing rate based the information available the commencement date determining the present value lease payments. Our incremental borrowing rate based our understanding what our credit rating would similar economic environment. Operating leases are included operating lease ROU assets, operating lease liabilities, current, and operating lease liabilities, non-current our consolidated balance sheets. Finance leases are included property and equipment, net, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and other liabilities our consolidated balance sheets. Operating lease costs are recognized straight-line basis over the lease terms. Finance lease assets are amortized straight-line basis over the shorter the estimated useful lives the assets the lease terms. During the year ended December , and , recorded net impairment losses $ billion and $ billion aggregate for operating lease ROU assets and leasehold improvements under ASC Topic part our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. The fair values the impaired assets were estimated using discounted cash flow models (income approach) based market participant assumptions with Level inputs. The assumptions used estimating fair value include the expected downtime prior the commencement future subleases, projected sublease income over the remaining lease periods, and discount rates that reflect the level risk associated with receiving future cash flows. For additional information regarding our restructuring efforts, see Note — Restructuring. Loss Contingencies are involved legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, tax government inquiries and investigations that arise the ordinary course business. Certain these matters include speculative claims for substantial indeterminate amounts damages. Additionally, are required comply with various legal and regulatory obligations around the world, and regularly become subject new laws and regulations the jurisdictions which operate. The requirements for complying with these obligations may uncertain and subject interpretation and enforcement regulatory and other authorities, and any failure comply with such obligations could eventually lead asserted legal regulatory action. With respect these matters, asserted and unasserted, evaluate the associated developments regular basis and accrue liability when believe that both probable that loss has been incurred and the amount can reasonably estimated. determine there reasonable possibility that may incur loss and the loss range loss can reasonably estimated, record such losses general and administrative expenses our consolidated statements income and disclose the possible loss the accompanying notes the consolidated financial statements the extent material. Business Combinations allocate the fair value purchase consideration the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based their estimated fair values the acquisition date. The excess the fair value purchase consideration over the fair values these identifiable assets and liabilities recorded goodwill reporting units based the expected benefit from the business combination. Allocation purchase consideration identifiable assets and liabilities affects the amortization expense, acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over the useful life, whereas any indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortized. During the measurement period, which not exceed one year from the acquisition date, record adjustments the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset goodwill. Upon the conclusion the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded earnings. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from business combinations and are expensed incurred. Goodwill and Intangibles Assets allocate goodwill reporting units based the expected benefit from business combinations. evaluate our reporting units annually, well when changes our operating segments occur. For changes reporting units, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level annually more frequently events changes circumstances would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. have two reporting units subject goodwill impairment testing. December , , impairment goodwill has been identified. evaluate the recoverability finite-lived intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events circumstances indicate that the carrying amount such assets may not recoverable. The evaluation these intangible assets are performed the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent the cash flows other assets and liabilities. Recoverability these assets measured comparison the carrying amounts the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate from the use and eventual disposition. such review indicates that the carrying amount finite-lived intangible assets not recoverable, and the assets fair value less than the carrying amount, impairment charge recognized. have not recorded any material impairment charges during the years presented. Our finite-lived intangible assets are amortized straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized. indefinite-lived intangible asset subsequently determined have finite useful life, the asset will tested for impairment and accounted for finite-lived intangible asset prospectively over its estimated remaining useful life. routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives finite-lived intangible assets. change the estimated useful life assumption for any asset, the remaining unamortized balance amortized over the revised estimated useful life. Foreign Currency Generally, the functional currency our international subsidiaries the local currency. translate the financial statements these subsidiaries . dollars using month-end rates exchange for assets and liabilities, and average rates exchange for revenue, costs, and expenses. Translation gains and losses are recorded accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component stockholders\' equity. December , and , had cumulative translation losses, net tax $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the subsidiary involved are recorded within interest and other income (expense), net our consolidated statements income. Net losses resulting from foreign currency transactions were $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. Credit Risk and Concentration Our financial instruments that are potentially subject concentrations credit risk consist primarily cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, marketable securities, and accounts receivable. Cash equivalents consists mostly money market funds, that primarily invest . government and agency securities. Marketable securities consist investments . government securities, . government agency securities, and investment grade corporate debt securities. part our cash management strategy, concentrate cash deposits with large financial institutions and our marketable securities are held diversified highly rated securities. Our investment portfolio corporate debt securities highly liquid and diversified among individual issuers. The amount credit losses recorded for the year ended December , was not material. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenue earned from customers across different industries and countries. generated %, %, and % our revenue for the years ended December , , , and , respectively, from marketers and developers based the United States, with majority the revenue outside the United States coming from customers located western Europe, China, Brazil, Australia, Canada and Japan. perform ongoing credit evaluations our customers and generally not require collateral. maintain allowance for estimated credit losses, and bad debt expense these losses was not material during the years ended December , , , . the event that accounts receivable collection cycles deteriorate, our operating results and financial position could adversely affected. customer represented % more total revenue during the years ended December , , , and . Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements April , early adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) . - , Leases (Topic ): Common Control Arrangements (ASU - ), which requires leasehold improvements associated with common control leases amortized over the useful life the common control group. The adoption this new standard did not have material impact our consolidated financial statements. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted November , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU . - , Segment Reporting (Topic ): Improvements Reportable Segment Disclosures (ASU - ), which requires enhanced disclosure significant segment expenses annual and interim basis. This guidance will effective for the annual periods beginning the year ended December , , and for interim periods beginning January , . Early adoption permitted. Upon adoption, the guidance should applied retrospectively all prior periods presented the financial statements. not expect the adoption this guidance have material impact our consolidated financial statements. December , the FASB issued ASU . - , Income Taxes (Topic ): Improvements Income Tax Disclosures (ASU - ), which improves the transparency income tax disclosures requiring consistent categories and greater disaggregation information the effective tax rate reconciliation and income taxes paid disaggregated jurisdiction. also includes certain other amendments improve the effectiveness income tax disclosures. This guidance will effective for the annual periods beginning the year ended December , . Early adoption permitted. Upon adoption, the guidance can applied prospectively retrospectively. not expect the adoption this guidance have material impact our consolidated financial statements. Note . Revenue Revenue disaggregated revenue source and segment consists the following ( millions): Year Ended December , Advertising $ , $ , $ , Other revenue , Family Apps , , , Reality Labs , , , Total revenue $ , $ , $ , Revenue disaggregated geography, based the addresses our customers, consists the following ( millions): Year Ended December , United States and Canada ( ) $ , $ , $ , Europe ( ) , , , Asia-Pacific ( ) , , , Rest World ( ) , , , Total revenue $ , $ , $ , _________________________ ( ) United States revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. ( ) China revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. ( ) Europe includes Russia and Turkey, and Rest World includes Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East. Our total deferred revenue was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. December , , expect $ million our deferred revenue realized less than year. Note . Restructuring Restructuri March , announced three rounds planned layoffs further reduce our company size approximately , employees across the Family Apps (FoA) and Reality Labs ( ) segments (the Restructuring). Impacted employees our recruiting, technology, and business groups were notified during March May . December , , have completed these employee layoffs. certain regions, small portion the impacted employees continue included our reported headcount through . recognized $ billion pre-tax severance and related personnel costs across the FoA and segments during the year ended December , accordance with ASC Topic , Exit Disposal Cost Obligations , where applicable. summary our Restructuring pre-tax charges, including subsequent adjustments, recorded for severance and related personnel costs during the year ended December , follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Research and development $ Marketing and sales General and administrative Total ( ) $ , ____________________________ ( ) Includes $ million share-based compensation expense recognized for the layoffs during the year ended December , . The Restructuring charges recorded under our FoA segment were $ billion and segment were $ million during the year ended December , . The following summary changes the accrued severance and other personnel liabilities related the layoff activities, included within accrued expenses and other current liabilities our consolidated balance sheets ( millions): Severance Liabilities Balance January , $ — Severance and other personnel costs , Cash payments ( , ) Balance December , $ Restructuring , initiated several measures pursue greater efficiency and realign our business and strategic priorities. These measures included facilities consolidation strategy sublease, early terminate, abandon several office buildings under operating leases, layoff approximately , employees across the FoA and segments, and pivot towards next generation data center design, including cancellation multiple data center projects (the Restructuring). December , , have completed the data center initiatives and the employee layoffs, and substantially completed the facilities consolidation initiatives. summary our Restructuring pre-tax charges for the years ended December , and , including subsequent adjustments, follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Facilities Consolidation Severance and Other Personnel Costs Data Center Assets ( ) Total Facilities Consolidation Severance and Other Personnel Costs Data Center Assets Total Cost revenue $ $ — $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ — $ , $ , Research and development , ( ) — , , — , Marketing and sales ( ) — — General and administrative ( ) — — Total $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , $ , $ $ , $ , ____________________________________ ( ) Relates changes estimates our data center restructuring charges recorded during . Total restructuring charges recorded under our FoA segment were $ billion and $ billion, and segment were $ million and $ million for the years ended December , and , respectively. The following summary changes the severance and other personnel liabilities related the layoff activities, included within accrued expenses and other current liabilities our consolidated balance sheets ( millions): Severance Liabilities Balance January , $ — Severance and other personnel costs Cash payments ( ) Balance December , Adjustments and foreign exchange ( ) Cash payments ( ) Balance December , $ — Note . Earnings per Share compute earnings per share (EPS) Class and Class common stock using the two-class method. the liquidation and dividend rights for both Class and Class common stock are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated proportionate basis the weighted-average number common shares outstanding for the period. Basic EPS computed dividing net income the weighted-average number shares our Class and Class common stock outstanding. For the calculation diluted EPS, net income for basic EPS adjusted the effect dilutive securities, including restricted stock units (RSUs) awards under our Equity Incentive Plan. addition, the computation the diluted EPS Class common stock assumes the conversion our Class common stock Class common stock, while the diluted EPS Class common stock does not assume the conversion those shares Class common stock. Diluted EPS computed dividing the resulting net income the weighted-average number fully diluted common shares outstanding. For the years ended December , and , approximately million and million shares Class common stock equivalents RSUs were excluded from the diluted EPS calculation, respectively, including them would have anti-dilutive effect. RSUs with anti-dilutive effect were not material for the year ended December , . Basic and diluted EPS are the same for each class common stock because they are entitled the same liquidation and dividend rights. The numerators and denominators the basic and diluted EPS computations for our common stock are calculated follows ( millions, except per share amounts): Year Ended December , Class Class Class Class Class Class Basic EPS: Numerator Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Denominator Shares used computation basic earnings per share , , , Basic EPS $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted EPS: Numerator Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Reallocation net income result conversion Class Class common stock , — , — , — Reallocation net income Class common stock — ( ) — ( ) — ( ) Net income for diluted EPS $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Denominator Shares used computation basic earnings per share , , , Conversion Class Class common stock — — — Weighted-average effect dilutive RSUs — — — Shares used computation diluted earnings per share , , , Diluted EPS $ $ $ $ $ $ Note . Financial Instruments Instruments Measured Fair Value classify our cash equivalents and marketable debt securities within Level Level because use quoted market prices alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs determine their fair value. Certain other assets are classified within Level because factors used develop the estimated fair value are unobservable inputs that are not supported market activity. The following tables summarize our assets measured fair value recurring basis and the classification level input within the fair value hierarchy ( millions): Fair Value Measurement Reporting Date Using Description December , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level ) Cash $ , Cash equivalents: Money market funds , $ , $ — $ — . government and agency securities , , — — Time deposits — — Corporate debt securities — — Total cash and cash equivalents , , — Marketable securities: . government securities , , — — . government agency securities , , — — Corporate debt securities , — , — Total marketable securities , , , — Restricted cash equivalents — — Other assets — — Total $ , $ , $ , $ Fair Value Measurement Reporting Date Using Description December , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level ) Cash $ , Cash equivalents: Money market funds , $ , $ — $ — . government and agency securities — — Time deposits — — Corporate debt securities — — Total cash and cash equivalents , , — Marketable securities: . government securities , , — — . government agency securities , , — — Corporate debt securities , — , — Marketable equity securities — — Total marketable securities , , , — Restricted cash equivalents — — Other assets — — Total $ , $ , $ , $ Unrealized Losses The following tables summarize our available-for-sale marketable debt securities and cash equivalents with unrealized losses December , and , aggregated major security type and the length time that individual securities have been continuous loss position ( millions): December , Less than months months greater Total Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses . government securities $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) . government agency securities — , ( ) , ( ) Corporate debt securities ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) December , Less than months months greater Total Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses . government securities $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) . government agency securities ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Corporate debt securities , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) The decrease the gross unrealized losses for the year ended December , mostly due shorter average portfolio duration. The allowance for credit losses and the gross unrealized gains our marketable debt securities were not material December , and . Contractual Maturities The following table classifies our marketable debt securities contractual maturities ( millions): December , Due within one year $ , Due after one year five years , Total $ , Instruments Measured Fair Value Non-recurring Basis Our non-marketable equity securities accounted for using the measurement alternative are measured fair value non-recurring basis and are classified within Level the fair value hierarchy because use significant unobservable inputs estimate their fair value. Assets remeasured fair value non-recurring basis within Level during the years ended December , and were $ million and $ million, respectively. For additional information, see Note — Non-marketable Equity Securities. Note . Non-marketable Equity Securities Our non-marketable equity securities are investments privately-held companies without readily determinable fair values. The following table summarizes our non-marketable equity securities that were measured using measurement alternative and equity method ( millions): December , Non-marketable equity securities under measurement alternative: Initial cost $ , $ , Cumulative upward adjustments Cumulative impairment downward adjustments ( ) ( ) Carrying value , , Non-marketable equity securities under equity method Total $ , $ , During the years ended December , , and , impairment and downward adjustments recorded for our non-marketable equity securities that were measured using measurement alternative was $ million, $ million, and immaterial, respectively. Note . Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists the following ( millions): December , Land $ , $ , Servers and network assets , , Buildings , , Leasehold improvements , , Equipment and other , , Finance lease right- -use assets , , Construction progress , , Property and equipment, gross , , Less: Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Construction progress includes costs mostly related construction data centers, network infrastructure and servers. December , , and , construction progress also included $ billion and $ billion servers and network assets components stored our suppliers until required our design manufacturers fulfill certain purchase orders, respectively. Depreciation expense property and equipment was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. Within property and equipment, our servers and network assets depreciation expenses were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. During the year ended December , , capitalized $ million interest expense related certain eligible construction progress assets. During the years ended December , , and , recorded $ million and $ million impairment losses mostly for leasehold improvements assets part our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts, respectively. For additional information, see Note — Restructuring. Note . Leases have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for our offices, data centers, and colocations. have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between and . Many leases include one more options renew. The components lease costs are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Finance lease cost: Amortization right- -use assets $ $ $ Interest Operating lease cost , , , Variable lease cost and other, net Total lease cost $ , $ , $ , also recorded $ billion and $ billion net impairment losses for operating lease right- -use assets part our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts for the years ended December , , and , respectively. For additional information, see Note — Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related lease liabilities follows: December , Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases years years Operating leases years years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases % % Operating leases % % The following schedule, years, maturities lease liabilities December , ( millions): Operating Leases Finance Leases $ , $ , , , , Thereafter , Total undiscounted cash flows , Less: Imputed interest ( , ) ( ) Present value lease liabilities ( ) $ , $ Lease liabilities, current $ , $ Lease liabilities, non-current , Present value lease liabilities ( ) $ , $ _________________ ( ) Lease liabilities include operating leases under restructuring part our facilities consolidation efforts. For additional information, see Note — Restructuring . The table above does not include lease payments that were not fixed commencement lease modification. December , , have additional operating and finance leases, that have not yet commenced, with lease obligations approximately $ billion and $ billion, respectively, mostly for data centers, colocations, and network infrastructure. These operating and finance leases will commence between and with lease terms greater than one year years. Supplemental cash flow information related leases follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Cash paid for amounts included the measurement lease liabilities: Operating cash flows for operating leases ( ) $ , $ , $ , Operating cash flows for finance leases $ $ $ Financing cash flows for finance leases $ , $ $ Lease liabilities arising from obtaining right- -use assets: Operating leases $ , $ , $ , Finance leases $ $ $ _________________ ( ) Cash flows for operating leases during the year ended December , include cash paid for terminations certain operating leases . Note . Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Intangible Assets During the year ended December , , completed business acquisitions with total purchase consideration $ million cash, including $ million and $ million allocated intangible assets and goodwill, respectively. Goodwill generated from these business acquisitions was primarily attributable expected synergies and potential monetization opportunities. The amount goodwill generated that was deductible for tax purposes was not material. Acquisition-related costs were immaterial and were expensed incurred. Pro forma historical results operations related these business acquisitions have not been presented because they are not significant our consolidated financial statements, either individually aggregate. have included the financial results these acquired businesses our consolidated financial statements from their respective dates acquisition. Changes the carrying amount goodwill reportable segment for the years ended December , and are follows ( millions): Family Apps Reality Labs Total Goodwill December , $ , $ $ , Acquisitions , Adjustments ( ) ( ) Goodwill December , , , , Acquisitions — Adjustments ( ) ( ) ( ) Goodwill December , $ , $ , $ , The following table sets forth the major categories the intangible assets and their weighted-average remaining useful lives ( millions): December , December , Weighted-Average Remaining Useful Lives ( years) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Acquired technology $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Acquired patents ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Total finite-lived assets ( ) ( ) Total indefinite-lived assets — — Total intangible assets $ , $ ( ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ Amortization expense intangible assets for the years ended December , , , and was $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. December , , expected amortization expense for the unamortized finite-lived intangible assets for the next five years and thereafter follows ( millions): $ Thereafter Total $ Note . Long-term Debt December , , had $ billion fixed-rate senior unsecured notes (the Notes), including $ billion issued August and $ billion issued May . The following table summarizes the Notes and the carrying amount our debt ( millions, except percentages): Maturity Stated Interest Rate Effective Interest Rate December , December , August debt: Notes % % $ , $ , Notes % % , , Notes % % , , Notes % % , , May debt: Notes % % , Notes % % , Notes % % , Notes % % , Notes % % , Total face amount long-term debt , , Unamortized discount and issuance costs, net ( ) ( ) Long-term debt $ , $ , Each series the Notes the table above rank equally with each other. Interest the Notes payable semi-annually arrears. may redeem the Notes any time, whole part, specified redemption prices. are not subject any financial covenants under the Notes. Interest expense, net capitalized interest, recognized the debt was $ million and $ million for the years ended December , and , respectively. The total estimated fair value our outstanding debt was $ billion and $ billion December , and , respectively. The fair value was determined based the closing trading price per $ the Notes and categorized accordingly Level the fair value hierarchy. December , , future principal payments for the Notes, year, are follows ( millions): through $ — , , Thereafter , Total outstanding debt $ , Note . Liabilities The components accrued expenses and other current liabilities are follows ( millions): December , Legal-related accruals ( ) $ , $ , Accrued compensation and benefits , , Accrued property and equipment , , Accrued taxes , , Other current liabilities , , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ , $ , _________________________ ( ) Includes accruals for estimated fines, settlements, other losses connection with legal and related matters, well other legal fees. For further information, see Legal and Related Matters Note — Commitments and Contingencies. The components other liabilities are follows ( millions): December , Income tax payable, non-current $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities , , Other liabilities $ , $ , Note . Commitments and Contingencies Contractual Commitments have $ billion non-cancelable contractual commitments December , , which are primarily related our investments servers, network infrastructure, and consumer hardware products Reality Labs. The following schedule, years, non-cancelable contractual commitments December , ( millions): $ , , Thereafter , Total $ , Additionally, part the normal course business, have entered into multi-year agreements purchase renewable energy that not specify fixed minimum volume commitment purchase certain server components that not specify fixed minimum price commitment. enter into these agreements order secure either volume price. Using the expected volume consumption, the total estimated spend related our renewable energy agreements December , approximately $ billion, majority which due beyond five years . The ultimate spend under these agreements may vary and will based actual volume purchased. Legal and Related Matters With respect the cases, actions, and inquiries described below, evaluate the associated developments regular basis and accrue liability when believe loss probable and the amount can reasonably estimated. addition, believe there reasonable possibility that may incur loss some these matters. With respect the matters described below that not include estimate the amount loss range possible loss, such losses range possible losses either cannot estimated are not individually material, but believe there reasonable possibility that they may material the aggregate. are also party various other legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, tax government inquiries and investigations that arise the ordinary course business. Additionally, are required comply with various legal and regulatory obligations around the world. The requirements for complying with these obligations may uncertain and subject interpretation and enforcement regulatory and other authorities, and any failure comply with such obligations could eventually lead asserted legal regulatory action. With respect these other legal proceedings, claims, regulatory, tax, government inquiries and investigations, and other matters, asserted and unasserted, evaluate the associated developments regular basis and accrue liability when believe loss probable and the amount can reasonably estimated. addition, believe there reasonable possibility that may incur loss some these other matters. believe that the amount losses any estimable range possible losses with respect these other matters will not, either individually the aggregate, have material adverse effect our business and consolidated financial statements. The ultimate outcome the legal and related matters described this section, such whether the likelihood loss remote, reasonably possible, probable, and when the reasonably possible range loss estimable, inherently uncertain. Therefore, one more these matters were resolved against for amounts excess management\' estimates loss, our results operations and financial condition, including particular reporting period which any such outcome becomes probable and estimable, could materially adversely affected. For information regarding income tax contingencies, see Note — Income Taxes. Privacy and Related Matters Beginning March , , multiple putative class actions were filed state and federal courts the United States and elsewhere against and certain our directors and officers alleging various causes action connection with our platform and user data practices well the misuse certain data developer that shared such data with third parties violation our terms and policies, and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief. With respect the putative class actions alleging fraud and violations consumer protection, privacy, and other laws connection with the same matters, several the cases brought behalf consumers the United States were consolidated the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Facebook, Inc., Consumer Privacy User Profile Litigation ). September , , the court granted, part, and denied, part, our motion dismiss the consolidated putative consumer class action. December , , the parties entered into settlement agreement resolve the lawsuit, which provides for payment $ million . The settlement was approved the court October , , and the payment was made November . addition, our platform and user data practices, well the events surrounding the misuse certain data developer, became the subject . Federal Trade Commission (FTC), state attorneys general, and other government inquiries the United States, Europe, and other jurisdictions. entered into settlement and modified consent order resolve the FTC inquiry, which took effect April . Among other matters, our settlement with the FTC required pay penalty $ billion which was paid April upon the effectiveness the modified consent order. The state attorneys general inquiry and certain government inquiries other jurisdictions remain ongoing. July , , stockholder derivative action was filed Delaware Court Chancery against certain our directors and officers asserting breach fiduciary duty and related claims relating our historical platform and user data practices, well our settlement with the FTC. July , , other stockholders filed amended derivative complaint related Delaware Chancery Court action, asserting breach fiduciary duty and related claims against certain our current and former directors and officers connection with our historical platform and user data practices. November , , the lead plaintiffs filed second amended and consolidated complaint the stockholder derivative action. The pending consolidated matter Facebook Inc. Derivative Litigation . January , , filed motion dismiss, which was denied part May , . The insider trading claim was dismissed all defendants except Mark Zuckerberg, and the motion was denied the breach fiduciary duty claims. May , , the FTC filed public administrative proceeding ( the Matter Facebook, Inc. ) seeking substantial changes the modified consent order, which took effect April after its entry the . District Court for the District Columbia. The changes sought the FTC are set forth proposed order and include, among others, prohibition our use minors\' data for any commercial purposes, changes the composition our board directors, and significant limitations our ability modify and launch new products. May , , filed motion before the . District Court for the District Columbia ( USA . Facebook, Inc. ) seeking enjoin the FTC from further pursuing its agency process modify the modified consent order. November , , the district court denied our motion, and have appealed the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit ( . . Facebook, Inc. ) and sought stay the FTC proceeding pending resolution the appeal. January , , the district court denied our motion for stay pending appeal and, January , , filed motion for stay pending appeal before the Court Appeals. November , , separately filed complaint, also the . District Court for the District Columbia ( Meta Platforms, Inc. . FTC ), asserting constitutional challenges the structure the FTC, and seeking preliminarily enjoin the FTC proceeding during the pendency the litigation. December , , the FTC filed opposition our motion for preliminary injunction and motion dismiss the complaint. Oral argument our motion enjoin and the FTC’ motion dismiss scheduled for March , . the FTC proceeding not enjoined stayed, our response the proceeding will due March , , after which time the FTC could amend the order impose these additional requirements set forth the proposed order. should have the opportunity appeal FTC decision modifying the order and could request the appellate court stay the enforcement the modifications the order while the appeal pending. unclear whether the appeal the request for stay would successful. also notify the Irish Data Protection Commission (IDPC), our lead European Union privacy regulator under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), certain other personal data breaches and privacy issues, and are subject inquiries and investigations the IDPC and other European regulators regarding various aspects our regulatory compliance. For example, May , , the IDPC issued Final Decision concluding that Meta Platforms Ireland\' reliance Standard Contractual Clauses respect certain transfers European Economic Area (EEA) Facebook user data was not compliance with the GDPR. The IDPC issued administrative fine EUR € billion well corrective orders, which described further "Legal Proceedings" contained Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . The interpretation the GDPR still evolving, including through decisions the Court Justice the European Union, and draft decisions investigations the IDPC are subject review other European privacy regulators part the GDPR\' cooperation and consistency mechanisms, which may lead significant changes the final outcome such investigations. result, the interpretation and enforcement the GDPR, well the imposition and amount penalties for non-compliance, are subject significant uncertainty. Although are vigorously defending our regulatory compliance, have accrued significant amounts for loss contingencies related these inquiries and investigations Europe, and believe there reasonable possibility that additional accruals for losses related these matters could material individually the aggregate. February , , the State Texas filed lawsuit against Texas state court ( Texas . Meta Platforms, Inc. ) alleging that "tag suggestions" and other uses facial recognition technology violated the Texas Capture Use Biometric Identifiers Act and the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices-Consumer Protection Act, and seeking statutory damages and injunctive relief. The case currently scheduled for trial June . Beginning June , , multiple putative class actions were filed against alleging that improperly received individuals\' information from third-party websites apps via our business tools violation our terms and various state and federal laws and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief (for example, Meta Pixel Healthcare Litigation; Meta Pixel Tax Filing Cases; Frasco . Flo Health, Inc.; Doe . Hey Favor, Inc. .; Doe . GoodRx Holdings, Inc. . the . District Court for the Northern District California; and Rickwalder, . . Meta Platforms, Inc. the California Supreme Court). Competition are subject various litigation and government inquiries and investigations, formal informal, competition authorities the United States, Europe, and other jurisdictions. Such investigations, inquiries, and lawsuits concern, among other things, our business practices the areas social networking social media services, digital advertising, and mobile online applications, well our acquisitions. For example, became the subject antitrust investigations the FTC, and . Department Justice. December , , the FTC filed complaint ( FTC . Meta Platforms, Inc. ) against the . District Court for the District Columbia alleging that engaged anticompetitive conduct and unfair methods competition violation Section the Federal Trade Commission Act and Section the Sherman Act, including acquiring Instagram and WhatsApp and maintaining conditions access our platform. The FTC sought permanent injunction against our company\' alleged violations the antitrust laws, and other equitable relief, including divestiture reconstruction Instagram and WhatsApp. June , , the court granted our motion dismiss the complaint filed the FTC with leave amend. August , , the FTC filed amended complaint, and October , , filed motion dismiss this amended complaint. January , , the court denied our motion dismiss the FTC\' amended complaint. Multiple putative class actions have also been filed state and federal courts the United States and the United Kingdom against alleging violations antitrust laws and other causes action connection with these acquisitions and other alleged anticompetitive conduct, and seeking damages and injunctive relief. Several the cases brought behalf certain advertisers and users the United States were consolidated the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Klein ., . Meta Platforms, Inc. ). January , , the court granted, part, and denied, part, our motion dismiss the consolidated actions. March , , first amended consolidated complaint was filed the putative class action brought behalf certain advertisers. December , , the court denied our motion dismiss the first amended consolidated complaint filed the putative class action brought behalf certain advertisers. December , the European Commission issued Statement Objections alleging that tie Facebook Marketplace Facebook and use data manner that infringes European Union competition rules. Securities and Other Actions Beginning March , , multiple putative class actions and derivative actions were filed state and federal courts the United States and elsewhere against and certain our directors and officers alleging violations securities laws, breach fiduciary duties, and other causes action connection with our platform and user data practices well the misuse certain data developer that shared such data with third parties violation our terms and policies, and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief. Beginning July , , two putative class actions were filed federal court the United States against and certain our directors and officers alleging violations securities laws connection with the disclosure our earnings results for the second quarter and seeking unspecified damages. These two actions subsequently were transferred and consolidated the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Facebook, Inc. Securities Litigation ) with the putative securities class action described above relating our platform and user data practices. series orders and , the district court granted our motions dismiss the plaintiffs\' claims. January , , the plaintiffs filed notice appeal the order dismissing their case, and October , , the . Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued its decision affirming part and reversing part the district court\' order dismissing the plaintiffs\' case. are also subject other government inquiries and investigations relating our business activities and disclosure practices. For example, beginning September , became subject government investigations and requests relating former employee\' allegations and release internal company documents concerning, among other things, our algorithms, advertising and user metrics, and content enforcement practices, well misinformation and other undesirable activity our platform, and user well-being. have since received additional requests relating these and other topics. Beginning October , , multiple putative class actions and derivative actions were filed the . District Court for the Northern District California against and certain our directors and officers alleging violations securities laws, breach fiduciary duties, and other causes action connection with the same matters, and seeking unspecified damages. Ohio Pub. Empl. Ret. Sys. . Meta Platforms, Inc. March , , putative class action was filed the . District Court for the Northern District California against and certain our directors and officers alleging violations securities laws connection with the disclosure our earnings results for the fourth quarter and seeking unspecified damages ( Plumbers & Steamfitters Local Pension Trust . Meta Platforms, Inc. ). July , , the court dismissed the claims against Meta and its officers with leave amend. September , , the plaintiffs filed amended complaint. Youth-Related Actions Beginning January , became subject litigation and other proceedings that were filed various federal and state courts alleging that Facebook and Instagram cause "social media addiction" users, with most proceedings focused those under years old, resulting various mental health and other harms. Putative class actions have been filed the United States and Canada behalf users those jurisdictions, and numerous school districts, municipalities, and one state the United States have filed public nuisance claims based similar allegations. October , , the federal cases were centralized the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Social Media Adolescent Addiction Product Liability Personal Injury Litigation ). October , , Social Media Cases , the Los Angeles County Superior Court presiding over the California state court proceedings sustained part and overruled part our demurrer the plaintiff\' claims. Beginning October , additional . states have filed lawsuits these topics various federal and state courts. These additional lawsuits include allegations regarding violations the Children\' Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) well violations state laws concerning consumer protection, unfair business practices, and products liability, with proceedings focused our alleged business practices and harms users under years old. These lawsuits seek damages and injunctive relief, and include cases filed various state attorneys general Social Media Adolescent Addiction Product Liability Personal Injury Litigation the . District Court for the Northern District California, well various state courts around the country. are also subject government investigations and requests from multiple regulators concerning the use our products, and the alleged mental and physical health and safety impacts users, particularly younger users. Other Actions Beginning August , , multiple putative class actions were filed against alleging that inflated our estimates the potential audience size for advertisements, resulting artificially increased demand and higher prices. The cases were consolidated the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Reserve . Facebook, Inc. ) and seek unspecified damages and injunctive relief. series rulings , , and , the court dismissed certain the plaintiffs\' claims, but permitted their fraud and unfair competition claims proceed. March , , the court granted the plaintiffs\' motion for class certification. June , , the . Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit granted our petition for permission appeal the district court\' class certification order, and the court heard argument September , . The case stayed the district court pending appeal. Beginning July , , multiple putative class actions were filed against the . District Court for the Northern District California ( Kadrey, . . Meta Platforms, Inc. and Chabon, . . Meta Platforms, Inc. ) and . District Court for the Southern District New York ( Huckabee, . . Meta Platforms, Inc. .) , which was subsequently transferred the . District Court for the Northern District California) alleging that used various copyrighted books and materials train our artificial intelligence models, and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief. addition, are subject litigation and other proceedings involving law enforcement and other regulatory agencies, including particular Brazil, Russia, and other countries Europe, order ascertain the precise scope our legal obligations comply with the requests those agencies, including our obligation disclose user information particular circumstances. number such instances have resulted the assessment fines and penalties against . believe have multiple legal grounds satisfy these requests prevail against associated fines and penalties, and intend vigorously defend such fines and penalties. Indemnifications the normal course business, facilitate transactions services and products, have agreed indemnify certain parties with respect certain matters. have agreed hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from breach representations covenants, out intellectual property infringement other claims made third parties. These agreements may limit the time within which indemnification claim can made and the amount the claim. addition, have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers, directors, and certain employees, and our certificate incorporation and bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations. not possible determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each particular agreement. Historically, payments made under these agreements have not had material impact our consolidated financial statements. our opinion, December , , there was not reasonable possibility had incurred material loss with respect indemnification such parties. have not recorded any liability for costs related indemnification through December , . Note . Stockholders\' Equity Common Stock Our certificate incorporation authorizes the issuance Class common stock and Class common stock. December , , are authorized issue , million shares Class common stock and , million shares Class common stock, each with par value $ per share. Holders our Class common stock and Class common stock are entitled dividends when, , and declared our board directors, subject the rights the holders all classes stock outstanding having priority rights dividends. The holder each share Class common stock entitled one vote, while the holder each share Class common stock entitled ten votes. Shares our Class common stock are convertible into equivalent number shares our Class common stock and generally convert into shares our Class common stock upon transfer. Class common stock and Class common stock are collectively referred common stock throughout the notes these financial statements, unless otherwise noted. December , , there were , million shares Class common stock and million shares Class common stock issued and outstanding. Capital Return Program Share Repurchase Our board directors has authorized share repurchase program our Class common stock, which commenced January and does not have expiration date. December , , $ billion remained available and authorized for repurchases under this program. January , additional $ billion repurchases was authorized under this program. , repurchased and subsequently retired million shares our Class common stock for aggregate amount $ billion, which includes the % excise tax accruals result the Inflation Reduction Act . December , , $ billion remained available and authorized for repurchases. January , additional $ billion repurchases was authorized under this program. The timing and actual number shares repurchased under the repurchase program depend variety factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities. Shares may repurchased through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions, including through the use trading plans intended qualify under Rule 10b5- under the Securities Exchange Act , amended. Dividend February , , announced the initiation our first ever cash dividend program. This cash dividend $ per share common stock equivalent $ per share annual basis. The first cash dividend will paid March , all holders record common stock the close business February , . Subject legally available funds and future declaration our board directors, currently intend continue pay quarterly cash dividend our outstanding common stock. The declaration and payment future dividends the sole discretion our board directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, available cash, and current and anticipated cash needs. Share-based Compensation Plan have one active share-based employee compensation plan, the Equity Incentive Plan (Amended Plan), which was amended each June , February , and December . Our Amended Plan provides for the issuance incentive and nonqualified stock options, restricted stock awards, stock appreciation rights, RSUs, performance shares, and stock bonuses qualified employees, directors, and consultants. Shares that are withheld connection with the net settlement RSUs forfeited are added the reserves the Amended Plan. March , , the number shares available for issuance under the Amended Plan increased million shares pursuant the December amendment. December , , there were million shares our Class common stock reserved for future issuance under our Amended Plan. The following table summarizes our share-based compensation expense, which consists the RSU expense, line item our consolidated statements income ( millions): Year Ended December , Cost revenue $ $ $ Research and development , , , Marketing and sales , General and administrative Total share-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , The following table summarizes the activities for our unvested RSUs for the year ended December , : Number Shares Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value Per Share ( thousands) Unvested December , , $ Granted , $ Vested ( , ) $ Forfeited ( , ) $ Unvested December , , $ The weighted-average grant date fair value RSUs granted the years ended December , and was $ and $ , respectively. The fair value the respective vesting dates RSUs that vested during the years ended December , , , and was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. The income tax benefit recognized related awards vested during the years ended December , , , and was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. December , , there was $ billion unrecognized share-based compensation expense related RSU awards. This unrecognized compensation expense expected recognized over weighted-average period approximately three years based vesting under the award service conditions. Note . Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents the detail interest and other income (expense), net ( millions): Year Ended December , Interest income $ , $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency exchange losses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Interest and other income (expense), net $ $ ( ) $ Note . Income Taxes The components income before provision for income taxes are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Domestic $ , $ , $ , Foreign , , , Income before provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The provision for income taxes consists the following ( millions): Year Ended December , Current: Federal $ , $ , $ , State Foreign , , , Total current tax expense , , , Deferred: Federal ( , ) State ( ) Foreign ( ) ( ) ( ) Total deferred tax (benefits)/expense ( , ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , reconciliation the . federal statutory income tax rates our effective tax rate follows ( percentages): Year Ended December , . federal statutory income tax rate % % % State income taxes, net federal benefit Share-based compensation ( ) ( ) Research and development tax credits ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign-derived intangible income deduction ( ) ( ) ( ) Effect non- . operations Other Effective tax rate % % % Our deferred tax assets (liabilities) are follows ( millions): December , Deferred tax assets: Loss carryforwards $ $ Tax credit carryforwards , , Share-based compensation Accrued expenses and other liabilities , , Lease liabilities , , Capitalized research and development , , Unrealized losses securities and investments Other Total deferred tax assets , , Less: valuation allowance ( , ) ( , ) Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance , , Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Right- -use assets ( , ) ( , ) Total deferred tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred tax assets $ , $ , The valuation allowance was approximately $ billion and $ billion December , and , respectively, primarily related . state tax credit carryforwards, . foreign tax credits, unrealized losses marketable securities, and certain foreign tax attributes for which not believe tax benefit more likely than not realized. December , , the . federal and state net operating loss carryforwards were $ million and $ billion, which will begin expire and , respectively, not utilized. have federal tax credit carryforwards $ million, which will begin expire , not utilized, and state tax credit carryforwards $ billion, most which not expire. Utilization our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may subject substantial annual limitations due the ownership change limitations provided the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. Such annual limitations could result the expiration the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards before their utilization. The events that may cause ownership changes include, but are not limited , cumulative stock ownership change greater than % over three‑year period. The following table reflects changes the gross unrecognized tax benefits ( millions): Year Ended December , Gross unrecognized tax benefits ‑ beginning period $ , $ , $ , Increases related prior year tax positions Decreases related prior year tax positions ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases related current year tax positions , , Decreases related settlements prior year tax positions ( ) ( ) ( ) Gross unrecognized tax benefits ‑ end period $ , $ , $ , These unrecognized tax benefits were primarily accrued for the uncertainties related transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries, which include licensing intellectual property, providing services and other transactions, well for the uncertainties with our research tax credits. During all years presented, recognized interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes our consolidated statements income. The amount interest and penalties accrued December , , , and were $ billion, $ billion, and $ million respectively. our gross unrecognized tax benefits $ billion December , were realized future period, this would result tax benefit $ billion within our provision income taxes such time. are subject taxation the United States and various other state and foreign jurisdictions. The material jurisdictions which are subject potential examination include the United States and Ireland. are under examination the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for our through tax years. Our through tax years are with the IRS Independent Office Appeals for certain unresolved issues. Our and subsequent tax years remain open examination the IRS and the Irish Revenue Commissioners. July , received Statutory Notice Deficiency (Notice) from the IRS related transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries conjunction with the examination the tax year. While the Notice applies only the tax year, the IRS stated that will also apply its position for tax years subsequent and has done years covered the second Notice described below. not agree with the position the IRS and have filed petition the Tax Court challenging the Notice. January , , the IRS\' amendment answer was filed stating that planned assert trial adjustment that higher than the adjustment stated the Notice. The first session the trial was completed March and the final trial session was completed August . expect the Tax Court issue opinion . Based the information provided, believe that, the IRS prevails its updated position, this could result additional federal tax liability estimated, aggregate amount approximately $ billion excess the amounts our originally filed . return, plus interest and any penalties asserted. March , received second Notice from the IRS conjunction with the examination our through tax years. The IRS applied its position from the tax year each these years and also proposed new adjustments related other transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries and certain tax credits that claimed. the IRS prevails its position for these new adjustments, this could result additional federal tax liability approximately $ million excess the amounts our originally filed . returns, plus interest and any penalties asserted. not agree with the positions the IRS the second Notice and have filed petition the Tax Court challenging the second Notice. have previously accrued estimated unrecognized tax benefit consistent with the guidance ASC , Income Taxes (ASC ), that lower than the potential additional federal tax liability from the positions taken the IRS the two Notices and its Pretrial Memorandum. addition, the IRS prevails its positions related transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries, the additional tax that would owe would partially offset reduction the tax that owe under the mandatory transition tax accumulated foreign earnings from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. December , , have not resolved these matters and proceedings continue the Tax Court. believe that adequate amounts have been reserved accordance with ASC for any adjustments the provision for income taxes other tax items that may ultimately result from these examinations. The timing the resolution, settlement, and closure any audits highly uncertain, and reasonably possible that the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change the next months. Given the number years remaining that are subject examination, are unable estimate the full range possible adjustments the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits. the tax authorities prevail the assessment additional tax due, the assessed tax, interest, and penalties, any, could have material adverse impact our financial position, results operations, and cash flows. Note . Segment and Geographical Information report our financial results for our two reportable segments: Family Apps (FoA) and Reality Labs ( ). FoA includes Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, WhatsApp, and other services. includes our augmented, mixed and virtual reality related consumer hardware, software, and content. Our operating segments are the same our reportable segments. Our chief executive officer our chief operating decision maker (CODM), who allocates resources and assesses the performance each operating segment using information about the operating segment\' revenue and income (loss) from operations. Our CODM does not evaluate operating segments using asset liability information. Revenue and costs and expenses are generally directly attributed our segments. These costs and expenses include certain product development related operating expenses, costs associated with partnership arrangements, consumer hardware product costs, content costs, legal-related costs, and severance costs. Indirect costs are allocated segments based reasonable allocation methodology, when such costs are significant the performance measures the operating segments. Indirect cost revenue allocated our segments based usage, such costs related the operation our data centers and technical infrastructure. Indirect operating expenses, such facilities, information technology, certain shared research and development activities, recruiting, physical security expenses, and certain restructuring costs, are mostly allocated based headcount. The following table sets forth our segment information revenue and income (loss) from operations ( millions): Year Ended December , Revenue: Family Apps $ , $ , $ , Reality Labs , , , Total revenue $ , $ , $ , Income (loss) from operations: Family Apps $ , $ , $ , Reality Labs ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total income from operations $ , $ , $ , For information regarding revenue disaggregated geography, see Note — Revenue. The following table sets forth our long-lived assets geographic area, which consist property and equipment, net and operating lease right- -use assets ( millions): December , United States $ , $ , Rest the world ( ) , , Total long-lived assets $ , $ , _________________________ ( ) individual country, other than disclosed above, exceeded % our total long-lived assets for any period presented. ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': "Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Our management, with the participation our chief executive officer (CEO) and chief financial officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act)), the end the period covered this Annual Report Form - . Based such evaluation, our CEO and CFO have concluded that December , , our disclosure controls and procedures are designed reasonable assurance level and are effective provide reasonable assurance that information are required disclose reports that file submit under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified the rules and forms the Securities and Exchange Commission, and that such information accumulated and communicated our management, including our CEO and CFO, appropriate, allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management' Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted assessment the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework). Based the assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective December , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with . GAAP. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report with respect our internal control over financial reporting, which appears Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . Changes Internal Control There were changes our internal control over financial reporting identified management' evaluation pursuant Rules 13a- ( ) 15d- ( ) the Exchange Act during the fourth quarter that materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations Effectiveness Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial Reporting designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance achieving the desired control objectives. addition, the design disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management required apply judgment evaluating the benefits possible controls and procedures relative their costs. ", 'item 9b. ': "Other Information Rule 10b5- Trading Plans November , , Jen nifer Newstead , our Chief Legal Officer , entered into trading plan intended satisfy the affirmative defense conditions Rule 10b5- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended. The trading plan provides for the sale aggregate , shares our Class common stock and all shares received during the duration the plan pursuant . Newstead' outstanding equity awards and any future equity award grants, excluding any shares withheld the company satisfy its income tax withholding and remittance obligations connection with the net settlement the equity awards. The plan will terminate May , , subject early termination for certain specified events set forth the plan. ", 'item 9c. ': 'Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections Not Applicable. PART III ', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . Our board directors has adopted Code Conduct applicable all officers, directors, and employees, which available our website (investor com) under "Leadership & Governance." intend satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item Form - regarding amendment , waiver from, provision our Code Conduct posting such information the website address and location specified above. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules have filed the following documents part this Form - : . Consolidated Financial Statements: Page . Financial Statement Schedules All schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, the required information otherwise included. . Exhibits Exhibit Incorporated Reference Filed Herewith Number Exhibit Description Form File . Exhibit Filing Date - - October , - - October , - - February , - - February , - - August , - - August , - - May , + - - April , ( )+ - - ( ) February , ( )+ - - ( ) February , ( )+ - - July , ( )+ - - May , Exhibit Incorporated Reference Filed Herewith Number Exhibit Description Form File . Exhibit Filing Date ( )+ - - July , ( )+ - - April , ( )+ - - ( ) January , ( )+ - - April , ( )+ . - - April , ( )+ - - July , ( )+ - - April , ( )+ - - April , + . - - October , + - - February , + . - - April , + - - February , + - - April , + - - April , + - - July , + - - April , + . - - February , + - - April , # Exhibit Incorporated Reference Filed Herewith Number Exhibit Description Form File . Exhibit Filing Date # INS Inline XBRL Instance Document (the instance document does not appear the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document). SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase Document. PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted inline XBRL and contained Exhibit ). + Indicates management contract compensatory plan. # This certification deemed not filed for purposes Section the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act), otherwise subject the liability that section, nor shall deemed incorporated reference into any filing under the Securities Act , amended, the Exchange Act. ', 'item 16. ': 'Form - Summary None. '}