{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Our mission enable people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. Since the company was founded , have worked achieve this mission creating technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate. develop and market software, services, hardware, and solutions that believe deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value people\x92 lives. business throughout the world and have offices more than countries. generate revenue developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products and services for many different types computing devices. Our software products and services include operating systems for servers, personal computers, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; high-performance computing applications; software development tools; and video games. provide consulting and product and solution support services, and train and certify computer system integrators and developers. also design and sell hardware including the Xbox video game console, the Zune digital music and entertainment device, and peripherals. Online offerings and information are delivered through Bing, Windows Live, Office Live, our MSN portals and channels, and the Microsoft Online Services platform which includes offerings for businesses such Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Exchange Hosted Services, Exchange Online, and SharePoint Online. enable the delivery online advertising across our broad range digital media properties and Bing through our proprietary adCenter platform. also conduct research and develop advanced technologies for future software products and services. believe that delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our integrated software platform the key meeting our customers\x92 needs and our future growth. believe that will continue lay the foundation for long-term growth delivering new products and services, creating new opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction, and improving our internal processes. Our focus build this foundation through ongoing innovation our integrated software platforms; delivering compelling value propositions customers; responding effectively customer and partner needs; and continuing emphasize the importance product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability. OPERATING SEGMENTS have five operating segments: Client, Server and Tools, Online Services Business, Microsoft Business Division, and Entertainment and Devices Division. Our segments provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide framework for timely and rational allocation development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. PAGE Part Item Due our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments. Therefore, these segments are not designed measure operating income loss that directly related the products and services included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and motivate shared effort. Segments should not viewed discrete easily separable businesses. Client Client has overall responsibility for technical architecture, engineering, and delivery our Windows product family and responsible for our relationships with personal computer manufacturers, including multinational and regional original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94). Client revenue growth directly impacted growth purchases from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. The differences between unit growth rates and revenue growth rates from year year are affected primarily changes the mix OEM Windows premium edition operating systems licensed percentage total OEM Windows operating systems licensed (\x93OEM premium mix\x94). Additional differences growth rates result from the impact from lower cost netbook PCs, which are sold with lower cost version Windows, changes geographic mix, and changes the channel mix products sold large, multi-national OEMs versus those sold local and regional system builders. The majority revenue fiscal year came from sales Windows Vista, which was released fiscal year . Windows operating systems reached end- -life for most editions and sales channels (Windows Home Edition will continue available netbooks and other Windows editions will continue available China). Windows , the latest version Windows, was released manufacturing July and expected generally available October , . Client offerings consist premium and standard edition Windows operating systems. Premium editions are those that include additional functionality and are sold price above our standard editions. Products : Windows Vista, including Home Basic, Home Premium, Ultimate, Business, Enterprise, and Starter Edition; Windows , including Professional, Home, Media Center, and Tablet Edition; and other standard Windows operating systems. Competition Client faces strong competition from well-established companies with differing approaches the market. Competing commercial software products, including variants Unix, are supplied competitors such Apple, Canonical, and Red Hat. Apple takes integrated approach the experience and has made inroads share, particularly the . and the consumer segment. The Linux operating system, which also derived from Unix and available without payment under General Public License, has gained some acceptance, especially emerging markets, competitive pressures lead OEMs reduce costs and new, lower-price form-factors gain adoption. Partners such Hewlett-Packard and Intel have been actively working with alternative Linux-based operating systems. The Windows operating system also faces competition from alternative platforms and new devices that may reduce consumer demand for traditional PCs. Competitors such Apple, Google, Mozilla, and Opera Software Company offer software that competes with the Internet Explorer Web browsing capabilities Windows products. User and usage volumes mobile devices are increasing around the world relative the . OEMs have been working make the Google Android mobile operating system more compatible with small form-factor PCs netbooks. Our operating system products compete effectively delivering innovative software, giving customers choice and flexibility, familiar, easy- -use interface, compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, and the largest support network for any operating system. Server and Tools Server and Tools develops and markets software server products, software developer tools, services, and solutions. Windows Server-based products are integrated server infrastructure and middleware software designed support software applications built the Windows Server operating system. Windows Server-based products include the server platform including targeted segment solutions, database, storage, management and operations, service-oriented PAGE Part Item architecture platform, and security and identity software. The segment also builds standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server products can run -site, partner-hosted environment, Microsoft-hosted environment. offer broad range consulting services and provide product support services that assist customers developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions. also provide training and certification developers and information technology professionals about our Server and Tools, Microsoft Business Division, and Client platform products. Approximately % Server and Tools revenue comes from multi-year licensing agreements, approximately % purchased through fully packaged product and transactional volume licensing programs, and approximately % comes from licenses sold OEMs. The remainder Server and Tools revenue comes from consulting and product and solution support services. Windows Server , the latest version the Windows Server operating system was released manufacturing July and expected generally available September . Products and Services : Windows Server operating system; Microsoft SQL Server; Visual Studio; Silverlight; System Center products; Forefront security products; Biz Talk Server; Microsoft Consulting Services; Premier product support services; and other products and services. Competition Our server operating system products face intense competition from wide variety server operating systems and server applications, offered companies with variety market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Sun Microsystems offer their own versions the Unix operating system preinstalled server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute Linux operating system development. The competitive position Linux has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many leading commercial and non-commercial software developers. number companies supply versions Linux, including Novell and Red Hat. have entered into business and technical collaboration agreements with Novell and other Linux providers build, market, and support series solutions enhance the interoperability our products with their virtualization, management, and network security solutions, and provide each other\x92 customers with patent coverage for their respective products. compete provide enterprise-wide computing solutions with several companies that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms. IBM, Oracle, and Sun Microsystems lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition (J2EE). Commercial software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include , Inc., IBM, and Oracle. Our Web application platform software competes with open source software such Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP, and compete against Java middleware such Geronimo, JBoss, and Spring Framework. Numerous commercial software vendors offer competing software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, and -business servers. System Center competes with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such BMC, , Inc., Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMWare the management information technology infrastructures. Forefront security products compete with McAfee, Symantec, and Trend Micro protecting both client and server applications. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, Borland, IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, other companies, and open-source projects. Open source projects include Eclipse (sponsored , IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby Rails, among others. believe that our server products provide customers with advantages innovation, performance, total costs ownership, and productivity delivering superior applications, development tools, and compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Online Services Business The Online Services Business (\x93OSB\x94) consists online advertising platform with offerings for both publishers and advertisers, online information offerings such Bing, MSN Portals and channels, and personal communications services such email and instant messaging around the world. earn revenue primarily from online advertising, including search, display, and email and messaging services. Revenue also generated through subscriptions and transactions generated from online paid services, from advertiser and publisher tools, and digital marketing and advertising agency services. continue launch updated and new online offerings and expect continue the future. During fiscal year , launched new releases our proprietary advertising platforms, adCenter PAGE Part Item and adExpert, and launched new release our search engine named Bing. also updated behavioral targeting tools, launched new releases MSN properties globally, and added applications and services our existing Windows Live suite. Products and Services : Bing; Microsoft adCenter adExpert; Microsoft Media Network (MMN); MSN portals, channels, and mobile services; Windows Live suite applications and mobile services; Atlas online tools for advertisers and publishers; MSN Premium Web Services (consisting MSN Internet Software Subscription, MSN Hotmail Plus, and MSN Software Services); and Razorfish media agency services. Competition OSB competes with AOL, Google, Yahoo!, and wide array Web sites and portals that provide content and online offerings all types end users. compete with these organizations provide advertising opportunities for merchants. The Internet advertising industry has grown significantly over the past several years, and anticipate that this trend will continue long-term. Competitors are aggressively developing Internet offerings that seek provide more effective ways connecting advertisers with audiences through enhanced functionality information services such Internet search, improvements communication services, and improved advertising infrastructure and support services. believe our search engine, Bing, helps users make faster, more informed decisions providing more relevant search results, expanded search services, and broader selection content. have also enhanced the user interface bring richer search experience, which believe will differentiate from our competitors. support the growth our advertising business, also are investing improving the scale our advertising platform, seamless integration content and offerings the mobile platform, rich and relevant content for wider consumer reach, enhanced communication services, technology, and operations, along with sustained sales efforts. will continue introduce new products and services that are aimed attracting additional users through improvements the user online experience. believe that can compete effectively across the breadth our Internet services providing users with software innovation the form information and communication services that help them find and use the information and experiences they want online and providing merchants with effective advertising results through improved systems and sales support. Microsoft Business Division Microsoft Business Division (\x93MBD\x94) offerings consist the Microsoft Office system and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity through range programs, services, and software solutions. Growth revenue from the Microsoft Office system offerings, which generate over % MBD revenue, depends our ability add value the core Office product set and continue expand our product offerings other information worker areas such content management, enterprise search, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. evaluate MBD results based upon the nature the end user two primary parts: business revenue, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue; and consumer revenue, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. Approximately % MBD revenue generated from sales businesses. Revenue from this category generally depends upon the number information workers licensed enterprise and therefore relatively independent the number PCs sold given year. Approximately % MBD revenue derived from sales consumers. Most this revenue generated from new licenses acquired through fully packaged products and licenses sold through OEMs for new PCs and generally affected the level shipments and product launches. Products : Microsoft Office; Microsoft Office Project; Microsoft Office Visio; Microsoft Office SharePoint Server; FAST ESP; Microsoft Exchange Server; Microsoft Exchange Hosted Services; Microsoft Office Live Meeting; Microsoft Office Communications Server; Microsoft Office Communicator; Microsoft Tellme Service; Microsoft Dynamics ERP products including , NAV, , , Retail Management System, and Point Sale; Microsoft Dynamics CRM; and Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online. PAGE Part Item Competition Competitors the Microsoft Office system include many software application vendors such Adobe, Apple, Corel, Google, IBM, Novell, Oracle, Red Hat, Zoho, and local application developers Asia and Europe. Apple may distribute certain versions its application software products with various models its PCs and through its mobile devices. Corel (WordPerfect Suite) and IBM (Smartsuite) have measurable installed bases with their office productivity products. Corel\x92 suites, and many local software suites around the world, are aggressively priced for OEMs preinstall them low-priced PCs. Google provides Google Apps, hosted messaging and productivity suite that competes with Microsoft Office, Microsoft Exchange, and Microsoft SharePoint Server, and also provides enterprise search offering that competes with Microsoft Search Server. IBM competes with Office system products with its Notes and Workplace offerings. The OpenOffice org project provides freely downloadable cross-platform application that also has been adapted various commercial software vendors sell under their brands, including IBM, Novell, Red Hat, and Sun Microsystems. Web-based offerings such 37Signals, Adobe, AjaxWrite, gOffice, ShareOffice, Socialtext, ThinkFree, Zoho, other small projects competing with individual applications, can also provide alternative Microsoft Office system products. Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with well-known vendors such Intuit and Sage the market focused providing solutions for small and mid-sized businesses. The market for large organizations and divisions global enterprises intensely competitive with small number primary vendors including Oracle and SAP. Additionally, Salesforce com\x92 -demand customer relationship management offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online and Microsoft Dynamic CRM\x92 -premise offerings. continue respond market demand for additional functionality and products, will compete with additional vendors, most notably content management and enterprise search, collaboration tools, unified communications, and business intelligence. These competitors include Autonomy, Cisco, Endeca, Google, IBM, Oracle, and SAP. believe our products compete effectively with all these vendors based our strategy providing flexible, easy use solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have. Entertainment and Devices Division The Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) responsible for developing, producing, and marketing the Xbox video game system, including consoles and accessories, third-party games, games published under the Microsoft brand, and Xbox Live operations, well research, sales, and support those products. addition Xbox, EDD offers the Zune digital music and entertainment device and accessories; software games; online games; Mediaroom, our Internet protocol television software; the Microsoft Surface computing platform; and mobile and embedded device platforms. EDD also leads the development efforts our line consumer software and hardware products including application software for Macintosh computers and Microsoft hardware products, and responsible for all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office and the Windows operating systems. Products : Xbox console and games; Xbox Live; Zune; Mediaroom; numerous consumer software and hardware products (such mice and keyboards); Windows Mobile software and services platform; Windows Embedded device operating system; Windows Automotive; and the Microsoft Surface computing platform. Competition Entertainment and devices businesses are highly competitive, characterized rapid product life cycles, frequent introductions new products and titles, and the development new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized significant price competition. anticipate continued pricing pressure from our competitors. From time time, have responded this pressure reducing prices certain products. Our competitors vary size from very small companies with limited resources very large, diversified corporations with substantial financial and marketing resources. compete primarily the basis product innovation, quality and variety, timing product releases, and effectiveness distribution and marketing. Our Xbox hardware business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large, established base customers. The lifecycle for video game consoles averages five years. released Xbox , our second generation console, November . Nintendo and Sony released new versions their game consoles late . believe the success video game consoles determined the availability games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability the console, and the ability create new experiences via online services, downloadable content, and peripherals. PAGE Part Item think the Xbox positioned well against competitive console products based significant innovation hardware architecture, new developer tools, online gaming services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises. addition competing against software published for non-Xbox platforms, our games business also competes with numerous companies that have licensed develop and publish software for the Xbox consoles. Zune competes with Apple and other manufacturers digital music and entertainment devices. Our hardware products face aggressive competition from computer and other hardware manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners. Mediaroom faces competition primarily from variety competitors that provide elements Internet protocol television delivery platform, but that not provide end- -end solutions for the network operator. Windows Mobile software and services faces substantial competition from Apple, Google, Nokia, Openwave Systems, Palm, QUALCOMM, Research Motion, and Symbian. The embedded operating system business highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include IBM, Intel, and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. OPERATIONS serve the needs customers around the world and improve the quality and usability products international markets, localize many our products reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Our operational centers support all operations their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center Singapore supports the Japan, Greater China and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. addition the operational centers, also operate data centers throughout the United States and Europe. contract most our manufacturing activities for Xbox and related games, Zune, various retail software packaged products, and Microsoft hardware third parties. Our products may include some components that are available from only one limited sources. Our Xbox console includes certain key components that are supplied single source. The central processing unit purchased from IBM and the graphics chips and embedded dynamic random access memory chips for the graphics processing unit are purchased from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. Although have chosen initially source these key Xbox components from single supplier, are under obligation exclusively source components from these vendors the future. Beyond the exceptions noted, generally have the ability use other custom manufacturers the current vendor becomes unavailable. generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. These amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years. plan continue make significant investments broad range research and product development efforts. While most our software products are developed internally, also purchase technology, license intellectual property rights, and oversee third-party development and localization certain products. believe are not materially dependent upon licenses and other agreements with third parties relating the development our products. Internal development allows maintain closer technical control over our products. also gives the freedom decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. Generally, also create product documentation internally. strive obtain information early possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, provide application vendors with range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. PAGE Part Item Investing Business and Product Development Innovation the foundation for Microsoft\x92 success. Our model for growth based our ability initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, enter new markets, both terms geographies and product areas, and drive broad adoption the products and services develop and market. maintain our long-term commitment research and development across wide spectrum technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and collaboration; information access and organization; entertainment; business and -commerce; advertising; and devices. Increasingly, are taking global approach innovation. While our main research and development facilities are located the United States, Redmond, Washington, also operate research facilities other parts the United States and around the world, including Canada, China, Denmark, England, India, Ireland, and Israel. This global approach will help remain competitive local markets and enables continue attract top talent from across the world. invest innovation focusing the emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that believe offer the greatest opportunity deliver value our customers and growth for the company. Microsoft Research one the world\x92 largest computer science research organizations, and works close collaboration with top universities around the world advance the state- -the-art computer science, providing unique perspective future technology trends. Based our assessment key technology trends and our broad focus long-term research and development new products and services, areas where see significant opportunities drive future growth include: Cloud computing and software plus services The ability combine the power desktop and server software with the reach the Internet creating important opportunities for growth almost every one our businesses. Accordingly, are focused innovation and broadening our platform develop cloud computing ecosystem that positions for success areas including virtualization, management, and security identity. are also focused delivering end- -end experiences that connect users information, communications, entertainment, and people new ways across their lives home, work, and the broadest possible range mobile scenarios through investments datacenters; new versions Windows and Office that are designed support wide range connected scenarios; solutions for businesses that can deployed customer, service provider like Microsoft, Microsoft partner; tools for developers and Web designers; and consumer products including Xbox and Zune. Natural user interfaces The next few years will also see dramatic changes the way people interact with technology touch, gestures, handwriting, and speech recognition become normal part how control devices. This will make technology more accessible and simpler use and will create opportunities reach new markets and deliver new kinds computing experiences. Our long-term investments natural user interfaces can seen products like Windows , the Microsoft Auto software platform, and Microsoft Surface. New scenario innovation Continuing improvement the power computers and devices and the speed and ubiquity networks creating opportunities deliver innovation that will transform number key industries and address significant global issues including healthcare, environmental sustainability, and education. healthcare, for example, computing will connect personal health information medical research and help make healthcare more preventive, personalized, and cost-effective. Today, Microsoft products such HealthVault and Amalga help individuals manage their personal health and enable healthcare professionals integrate research and health information they can deliver more effective care. also believe that are entering period where personal computers will play increasingly important role virtually every field scientific research and discovery. PAGE Part Item Intelligent computing computing power increases, our ability build software that has the intelligence understand user\x92 preferences based the tools and information they have accessed the past and anticipate their future needs rapidly improving. This development will enable deliver new generation software solutions that make people more productive enabling them focus more what they want accomplish and less the steps needed use technology. DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING distribute our products primarily through the following channels: OEM; distributors and resellers; and online. OEM license our software OEMs for distribution pre-installed software new PCs. The most significant part the OEM business for licensing the Windows operating system. also license certain server operating systems, desktop applications such our Office productivity suite, and consumer software products and market hardware devices, and software services including our Windows Live Essentials suite OEMs. have OEM agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the major OEMs, including Acer, ASUSTek, Dell, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, NEC, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba. substantial amount OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume, customized vendors operating local markets. Distributors and Resellers license software organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer acquire multiple licenses products. Organizations license our products primarily through large account resellers (\x93LARs\x94) and value-added resellers (\x93VARs\x94). Many organizations that license products through enterprise agreements transact directly with , with sales support from our Enterprise Software Advisor channel partners. These Enterprise Software Advisors typically are also authorized LARs and operate resellers for our other licensing programs. Although each type reselling partner reaches organizations all sizes, LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations and VARs typically reach the small- and medium-sized organizations. Some our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some our largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Software House International, and Insight Enterprises. Our Microsoft Dynamics software offerings are licensed enterprises through global network channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. distribute our finished goods products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain our products primarily through retail outlets, including Best Buy, Target, and Wal-Mart. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers and provides product training and sales support. Our arrangements for organizations acquire multiple licenses products are designed provide them with means doing without having acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. delivering organizational licensing arrangements the market, use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they include: Open licensing Designed primarily for small- -medium organizations ( over licenses), these programs allow customers acquire perpetual subscription licenses and, the customer\x92 election, rights future versions software products over specified time period (two three years depending the Open program used). The offering that conveys rights future versions certain software products over the contract period called software assurance. Software assurance also provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Under the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, licenses with software assurance. They can also renew software assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. PAGE Part Item Select licensing Designed primarily for medium- -large organizations (greater than licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, software assurance over specified time period (generally three years less align the end the agreement term). Similar the Open program, the Select program allows customers acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with software assurance, renew software assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Enterprise agreement licensing Enterprise agreements are targeted medium and large organizations (greater than licenses) that want acquire licenses software products, along with software assurance, for all substantial parts their enterprise. Enterprises can elect either acquire perpetual licenses , under the Enterprise Subscription program, can acquire non-perpetual, subscription agreements for specified time period (generally three years). Online have expanding portfolio products, services, and solutions that distribute online. provide online content and services through Bing, Windows Live, Office Live, our MSN portals and channels, and the Microsoft Online Services platform, which includes offerings for businesses such cloud-hosted Exchange, SharePoint, and Office Communications. OSB provides various premium services consumers and businesses, such email and messaging communication services and tools such online search, advertising, and premium content. EDD offers the Xbox Live service which allows customers participate the gaming experience online with other subscribers. also offer the Microsoft Small Business Center portal which provides tools for small-business owners build, market, and manage their businesses online. Other services delivered online include Microsoft Developer Networks subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support our partners developing and selling our products and solutions. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small- and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through resellers and OEMs. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year , , revenue. Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers July , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Robert . (Robbie) Bach President, Entertainment and Devices Division Lisa . Brummel Senior Vice President, Human Resources Stephen . Elop President, Microsoft Business Division Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer , . President, Online Services Division Robert . Muglia President, Server and Tools Business Craig . Mundie Chief Research and Strategy Officer Raymond . Ozzie Chief Software Architect Steven Sinofsky President, Windows Division Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President; General Counsel; Secretary . Kevin Turner Chief Operating Officer PAGE Part Item . Ballmer was appointed Chief Executive Officer January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . . Ballmer joined Microsoft . . Bach was named President, Entertainment and Devices Division September . had been Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March , Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity since , and Vice President, Desktop Applications Marketing since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Brummel was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources December . She had been Corporate Vice President, Human Resources since May . From May May , she had been Corporate Vice President the Home & Retail Division. Since joining Microsoft , . Brummel has held number management positions Microsoft, including general manager Consumer Productivity business, product unit manager the Kids business, and product unit manager Desktop and Decision reference products. . Elop was named President, Microsoft Business Division January . Prior joining the Company, . Elop served Chief Operating Officer Juniper Networks, Inc. from January January . From December December , served President Worldwide Field Operations Adobe Systems Inc. . Elop joined Adobe following the acquisition Macromedia Inc., where was President and Chief Executive Officer from January December . During his almost eight-year tenure Macromedia, . Elop held many senior positions, including Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President Worldwide Field Operations and General Manager Macromedia\x92 eBusiness division. . Liddell was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer the Company May . . Liddell served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer International Paper Company from March through April , and prior becoming Chief Financial Officer, held the positions Vice President-Finance and Controller. . Liddell served Chief Executive Officer Carter Holt Harvey Limited, affiliate International Paper, from and Chief Financial Officer from . . joined Microsoft January President, Online Services Division. Prior joining the Company, . was senior executive Yahoo!, Inc. for years. His roles included serving Executive Vice President Engineering for Yahoo!\x92 Search and Advertising Technology Group and Vice President Engineering. . Muglia was named President, Server and Tools Business January . had been Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business since October . Before holding that position, had number leadership positions Microsoft, including Senior Vice President, Enterprise Storage Division since November , Group Vice President, Personal Services Group since August , Group Vice President, Business Productivity since December , Senior Vice President, Business Productivity since March , Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools since February , and Corporate Vice President, Server Applications since . . Muglia joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Chief Research and Strategy Officer June . had been Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy since August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . . Mundie joined Microsoft . . Ozzie was named Chief Software Architect June . had been Chief Technical Officer from April June . assumed that role April after Microsoft acquired Groove Networks, collaboration software company formed . . Sinofsky was named President, Windows Division July . served Senior Vice President the Windows and Windows Live Engineering Group since December and Senior Vice President, Office from December December . had been Vice President, Office since December . . Sinofsky joined the Office team , increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release the desktop suite. . Sinofsky joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary November . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer effective July . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. . Smith joined Microsoft . . Turner was named Chief Operating Officer September . Before joining Microsoft, was Executive Vice President Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and President and Chief Executive Officer the Sam\x92 Club division. From September August , served Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Wal-Mart\x92 Information Systems Division. From March September , served its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer the Information Systems Division. PAGE Part Item , EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Company Internet address www microsoft com. our Investor Relations Web site, www microsoft com msft, make available free charge variety information for investors. Our goal maintain the Investor Relations Web site portal through which investors can easily find navigate pertinent information about , including: \x95 Our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file that material with furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94). \x95 Our Investor Central site, interactive and easily navigable source information including our business strategies, financial results, and key performance indicators. \x95 Announcements investor conferences, speeches, and events which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives these events are also available. \x95 Press releases quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news. \x95 Corporate governance information including our articles, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes conduct and ethics, and other governance-related policies. \x95 Other news and announcements that may post from time time that investors might find useful interesting. \x95 Opportunities sign for email alerts and RSS feeds have information pushed real time. The information found our Web site not part this any other report file with furnish the SEC. ', 'item 1a. ': 'RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results operations, cash flows, and the trading price our common stock. Challenges our business model may reduce our revenues and operating margins. Our business model has been based upon customers paying fee license software that develop and distribute. Under this license-based software model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution their products. Certain \x93open source\x94 software business models challenge our license-based software model. Open source commonly refers software whose source code subject license allowing modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject restrictions set forth the license. number commercial firms compete with using open source business model modifying and then distributing open source software end users nominal cost and earning revenue complementary services and products. These firms not bear the full costs research and development for the software. Some these firms may build upon Microsoft ideas that provide them free low royalties connection with our interoperability initiatives. the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance, our sales, revenue, and operating margins may decline. Another development the business model under which companies provide content, and software the form applications, data, and related services, over the Internet exchange for revenues primarily from advertising subscriptions. example advertising-funded business model Internet search, where providing robust PAGE Part Item alternative particularly important and challenging due the scale effects enjoyed single market dominant competitor. Advances computing and communications technologies have made this model viable and enabled the rapid growth some our competitors. are devoting significant resources toward developing our own competing software plus services strategies including the Windows Azure Platform, our hosted computing platform designed facilitate the rapid, flexible and scalable development cloud-based services. uncertain whether these strategies will successful. important element our business model has been create platform-based ecosystems which many participants can build diverse solutions. competing vertically-integrated model, which single firm controls both the software and hardware elements product, has been successful with certain consumer products such personal computers, mobile phones, and digital music players. also offer vertically-integrated hardware and software products; however, efforts compete with the vertically integrated model may increase our cost sales and reduce our operating margins. face intense competition. continue experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors range size from Fortune companies small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. Although believe the breadth our businesses and product portfolio competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused narrower product lines may more effective devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources compete with . addition, barriers entry our businesses generally are low and products, once developed, can distributed broadly and quickly relatively low cost. Open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts developing software that mimics the features and functionality our products, some cases the basis technical specifications for Microsoft technologies that make available little cost. response competition, are developing versions our products with basic functionality that are sold lower prices than the standard versions. These competitive pressures may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives, resulting lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. may not able adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use software and other intellectual property difficult. While piracy adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the . more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Similarly, the absence harmonized patent laws makes more difficult ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail enhance revenue. Reductions the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. Third parties may claim infringe their intellectual property rights. From time time receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow. resolve these claims may enter into royalty and licensing agreements less favorable terms, stop selling redesign affected products, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. Such agreements may cause operating margins decline. have made and expect continue making significant expenditures settle claims related the use technology and intellectual property rights part our strategy manage this risk. may not able protect our source code from copying there unauthorized disclosure source code. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, critical our business. Although license portions our application and operating system source code number licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. unauthorized disclosure significant portion our source code occurs, could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. This could make easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code also could increase the security risks described the next paragraph. Security vulnerabilities our products could lead reduced revenues liability claims. Maintaining the security computers and computer networks critical issue for and our customers. Hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. Although this industry-wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, affects our products particular because hackers tend PAGE Part Item focus their efforts the most popular operating systems and programs and expect them continue . devote significant resources address security vulnerabilities through: \x95 engineering more secure products; \x95 enhancing security and reliability features our products; \x95 helping our customers make the best use our products and services protect against computer viruses and other attacks; \x95 improving the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities; \x95 investing mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed; and \x95 providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such firewalls and anti-virus software. The cost these steps could reduce our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products could lead some customers seek return products, reduce delay future purchases, use competing products. Customers may also increase their expenditures protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption new technologies. Any these actions customers could adversely affect our revenue. addition, actual perceived vulnerabilities may lead claims against . Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure such liability, there assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. are subject government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how design and market our products. leading global software maker, receive close scrutiny from government agencies under . and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights action for competitors consumers assert claims anti-competitive conduct. For example, have been involved the following actions. Lawsuits brought the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia two separate actions were resolved through Consent Decree that took effect and Final Judgment entered . These proceedings imposed various constraints our Windows operating system businesses. These constraints include limits certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers limit the visibility certain Windows features new PCs. believe are full compliance with these rules. However, fail comply with them, additional restrictions could imposed that would adversely affect our business. The European Commission closely scrutinizes the design high-volume Microsoft products and the terms which make certain technologies used these products, such file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available other companies. , the Commission ordered create new versions Windows that not include certain multimedia technologies and provide our competitors with specifications for how implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols their own products. The Commission\x92 impact product design may limit our ability innovate Windows other products the future, diminish the developer appeal the Windows platform, and increase our product development costs. The availability licenses related protocols and file formats may enable competitors develop software products that better mimic the functionality our own products which could result decreased sales our products. Government regulatory actions and court decisions such these may hinder our ability provide the benefits our software consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness our products and the revenues that come from them. New actions could initiated any time, either these other governments private claimants, including with respect new versions Windows other Microsoft products. The outcome such actions, steps taken avoid them, could adversely affect variety ways, including: \x95 may have choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies avoid fines designing and developing alternative versions those products comply with government rulings, which may entail delay product release and removing functionality that customers want which developers rely. \x95 may required make available licenses our proprietary technologies terms that not reflect their fair market value not protect our associated intellectual property. \x95 The rulings described above may cited precedent other competition law proceedings. PAGE Part Item Our software and services online offerings are subject government regulation the Internet domestically and internationally many areas, including user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. The application these laws and regulations our business often unclear and sometimes may conflict. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs require changes business practices that result reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result penalties being imposed orders that stop doing the alleged noncompliant activity. Our business depends our ability attract and retain talented employees. Our business based successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders our industry extremely competitive. are limited our ability recruit internationally restrictive domestic immigration laws. are less successful our recruiting efforts, are unable retain key employees, our ability develop and deliver successful products and services may adversely affected. Effective succession planning also important our long-term success. Failure ensure effective transfer knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Delays product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Our increasing focus software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. Significant delays new product service releases significant problems creating new products services could adversely affect our revenue. make significant investments new products and services that may not profitable. Our growth depends our ability innovate offering new, and adding value our existing, software and service offerings. will continue make significant investments research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, the Microsoft Office system, Xbox , Live Search, Windows Server, Zune, Windows Live, the Windows Azure Services platform, and other software plus services offerings. Investments new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. customers not perceive our latest offerings providing significant new functionality other value, they may reduce their purchases new software products upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for number years, all. Moreover, new products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not high the margins have experienced historically. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Unfavorable changes economic conditions, including inflation, recession, other changes economic conditions, may result lower information technology spending and adversely affect our revenue. demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, consumer business spending for those products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. Our product distribution system also relies extensive partner network. The impact economic conditions our partners, such the bankruptcy major distributor, could result sales channel disruption. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability our customers pay for products and services they have purchased. result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs accounts receivable may increase. maintain investment portfolio various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are subject general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may exacerbated unusual events that have affected global financial markets. global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods decline, our investment portfolio may adversely impacted and could determine that more our investments have experienced other-than-temporary decline fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely impact our financial results. have claims and lawsuits against that may result adverse outcomes. are subject variety claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes some all these claims may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability conduct our business. Although management currently believes resolving all these matters, individually the aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows, the litigation and other claims are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. material adverse impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows also could occur for the period which the effect unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. PAGE Part Item may have additional tax liabilities. are subject income taxes the United States and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. regularly are under audit tax authorities. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results audit litigation could have material effect our financial position, results operations, cash flows the period periods for which that determination made. addition, there have been proposals reform . tax laws that would significantly impact how . multinational corporations are taxed foreign earnings. earn substantial portion our income foreign countries. Although cannot predict whether what form this proposed legislation will pass, enacted could have material adverse impact our tax expense and cash flow. Our vertically-integrated hardware and software products may experience quality supply problems . Our hardware products such the Xbox console are highly complex and can have defects design, manufacture, associated software. could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm fail detect effectively address such issues through design, testing, warranty repairs. obtain some components our hardware devices from sole suppliers. component delivery from sole-source supplier delayed becomes unavailable industry shortages occur, may unable obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting reduced sales. Either component shortages excess obsolete inventory may require record charges cost revenue. Xbox consoles are assembled Asia; disruptions the supply chain may result console shortages that would affect our revenues and operating margins. These same risks would apply any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products may offer. our goodwill amortizable intangible assets become impaired may required record significant charge earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. Goodwill tested for impairment least annually. Factors that may considered change circumstances, indicating that the carrying value our goodwill amortizable intangible assets may not recoverable, include decline stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates our industry. may required record significant charge our financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill amortizable intangible assets determined, negatively impacting our results operations. operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure make our pricing structure uniform might require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. Operations outside the United States may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments; and changes regulatory requirements for software. Emerging markets are significant focus our international growth strategy. The developing nature these markets presents number risks. Deterioration social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations may also adversely affect our operations financial results. Although hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. Catastrophic events geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. disruption failure our systems operations the event major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales, providing services, performing other mission-critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could harm our ability conduct normal business operations and our operating results. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. PAGE Part Item , , , , Acquisitions and joint ventures may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that don\x92 realize satisfactory return our investment, that experience difficulty the integration new employees, business systems, and technology, diversion management\x92 attention from our other businesses. These events could harm our operating results financial condition. Improper disclosure personal data could result liability and harm our reputation. store and process large amounts personally identifiable information. possible that our security controls over personal data, our training employees and vendors data security, and other practices follow may not prevent the improper disclosure personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting increased costs loss revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers store and process personal data. Perceptions that our products services not adequately protect the privacy personal information could inhibit sales our products. may experience outages and disruptions our online services fail maintain adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic and complexity our products and services demand more computing power. have spent and expect continue spend substantial amounts purchase lease data centers and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure handle increased traffic our Web sites and introduce new products and services and support existing services such Xbox Live, Windows Live, and Office Live. This expansion expensive, complex, and could result inefficiencies operational failures, which could diminish the quality our products, services, and user experience, resulting damage our reputation and loss current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, harming our operating results and financial condition. ', 'item 1b. ': 'UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS have received written comments regarding our periodic current reports from the staff the SEC that were issued days more preceding the end our fiscal year that remain unresolved. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office space located King County, Washington: ten million square feet owned space situated approximately acres land own our corporate campus Redmond, Washington and approximately five million square feet space lease. own approximately two million square feet office and datacenter space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately four million square feet office and datacenter space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately two million square feet that owned and approximately nine million square feet that leased. Facilities that own include our European Operations Center Dublin, Ireland; the India Development Center Hyderabad, India; and facility Reading, . The largest leased office spaces include the following locations: Beijing and Shanghai, China; Bangalore, India; Dublin, Ireland; Tokyo, Japan; Mississauga, Canada; Taipei, Taiwan; Seoul, Korea; Sydney, Australia; and Milan, Italy. addition the above locations, have disk duplication and digital distribution facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters, and various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described the \x93Research and Development\x94 section above. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional spaces are available accommodate expansion needs. have development agreement with the City Redmond under which may currently develop approximately million square feet additional facilities our corporate campus Redmond, Washington. addition, own acres undeveloped land Issaquah, Washington, that can accommodate approximately one million square feet office space. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) for information regarding legal proceedings which are involved. ', 'item 4. ': 'SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal year . PAGE Part Item PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. July , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock sales prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low $ $ $ $ $ Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low $ $ $ $ $ DIVIDENDS AND SHARE REPURCHASES See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) for information regarding dividends and share repurchases. PAGE Part Item ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Fiscal Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term obligations $ , ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes $ billion debt securities issued May . See Note \x96 Debt the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ). PAGE Part Item ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS , , AND Overview The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis (\x93 & \x94) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes the financial statements (\x93Notes\x94). generate revenue developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products and services for many different types computing devices. Our software products and services include operating systems for personal computers, servers, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; high-performance computing applications; software development tools; and video games. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify computer system integrators and developers. also design and sell hardware, including the Xbox video game console, the Zune digital music and entertainment device, and peripherals. Online offerings and information are delivered through Bing, Windows Live, Office Live, our MSN portals and channels, and the Microsoft Online Services platform, which includes offerings for businesses, such Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Exchange Hosted Services, Exchange Online, and SharePoint Online. enable the delivery online advertising across our broad range digital media properties and Bing through our proprietary adCenter platform. Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest the second quarter our fiscal year due corporate calendar year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers. Our Entertainment and Devices Division particularly seasonal its products are aimed the consumer market and are highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Typically, the Entertainment and Devices Division has generated approximately % its annual segment revenues our second fiscal quarter. fiscal year , our revenue was highest the third quarter due the recognition $ billion revenue previously deferred from the Express Upgrade Windows Vista and Microsoft Office Technology Guarantee programs and pre-shipments Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system. The technology guarantee programs provided customers who purchased current products with free discounted rights Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system when those products became available consumers. The unfavorable global economic environment adversely affected our business fiscal year consumers and businesses cut back spending, which reduced shipments and investments. But because offer wide range products that enable companies improve productivity and reduce costs, and because have strong pipeline products, including new versions Windows and Office planned for release fiscal year , believe that Microsoft well-positioned weather the economic downturn. the global economy improves, this will create new opportunities increase revenue. further help weather the economic downturn, fiscal year made important adjustments our cost structure and streamlined internal business processes. Technological innovation the foundation our long-term growth and intend maintain our commitment investment research and development, engineering excellence, and delivering high-quality products and services customers and partners. Recognizing that one our primary business objectives help accelerate worldwide adoption and software upgrades, continue advance the functionality, security, and value Windows operating systems. remain focused selling our products emerging markets and reducing the amount unlicensed software used those markets. also continue develop innovative software applications and solutions that believe will enhance information worker productivity, improve communication and collaboration work groups, aid business intelligence, and streamline processes for small and mid-sized businesses. sustain growth the face competition from other vendors proprietary and open source software, our goal deliver products that provide the best platform for network computing \x96 software that easiest deploy and manage, and that most secure \x96 with the lowest total cost ownership. addition, continue invest research and development existing and new lines business, including cloud computing, search, online solutions, business solutions, mobile computing, communication, entertainment, PAGE Part Item and other areas that believe may contribute our long-term growth. also invest research and development advanced technologies for future software products. believe that delivering innovative and high-value solutions through our integrated platform the key meeting customer needs and our future growth. This long-term focus investment research and development has enabled lay foundation for future growth delivering innovative products, creating opportunities for partners, and improving customer satisfaction. Our focus fiscal year build this foundation and continue execute well key areas through ongoing innovation our integrated software platform, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and focusing internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability across the company. Summary Results for Fiscal Years , , and ( millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Operating income $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ ( )% % Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue declined across most segments primarily driven weakness the global market and the unfavorable economic environment. Foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $ million one percentage point increase revenue. Primary factors contributing the decline include the following: \x95 Revenue from Windows operating systems declined reflecting market weakness, especially PCs sold businesses, and decline the OEM premium mix. \x95 Revenue from our Entertainment and Devices Division decreased across most lines business including Xbox platform and game revenue which declined primarily result decreased revenue per console due price reductions during the past months, partially offset increased console sales and Xbox Live revenue. The above declines were partially offset increased server and server application revenue, reflecting recognition deferred revenue from previously signed agreements and continued adoption the Windows Server Platform and applications through SQL Server, Enterprise CAL Suites, and System Center products. Operating income decreased primarily reflecting decreased revenue. Operating expenses were flat with decreased general and administrative and sales and marketing expenses offset increased headcount-related expenses, cost revenue, and employee severance charges. \x95 General and administrative expenses decreased $ billion %, primarily due decreased costs for legal settlements and contingencies. incurred $ million legal charges during the twelve months ended June , compared $ billion during the twelve months ended June , . The prior year costs were primarily related the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million). \x95 Sales and marketing expenses decreased $ million %, primarily driven the resource management program. part that program, reduced marketing and advertising expenses. \x95 Headcount-related expenses, excluding $ million employee severance charges, increased %, driven % increase headcount during the past months and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. \x95 Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased online costs, including online traffic acquisition, data center and equipment, and headcount-related costs, partially offset decreased Xbox platform costs. January , announced and implemented resource management program reduce discretionary operating expenses, employee headcount, and capital expenditures. part this program, announced the PAGE Part Item elimination , positions research and development, marketing, sales, finance, legal, human resources, and information technology June , . During the twelve months ended June , , recorded employee severance charges $ million for the expected reduction employee headcount. Diluted earnings per share declined primarily reflecting decreased net income, partially offset share repurchases during the past months. repurchased million shares during the twelve months ended June , . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue growth was driven primarily increased licensing the Microsoft Office system, increased Xbox platform sales, increased revenue associated with Windows Server and SQL Server, and increased licensing Windows Vista. Foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $ billion three percentage point increase revenue during fiscal year . Operating income increased primarily reflecting increased revenue, partially offset increased headcount-related expenses, increased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies, and increased cost revenue. Headcount-related expenses increased %, reflecting increase headcount during fiscal year . incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year primarily related the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million) compared with $ million legal charges during fiscal year . Cost revenue increased $ million %, reflecting increased data center and equipment costs, online content expenses, and increased costs associated with the growth our consulting services, partially offset decreased Xbox costs. The decreased Xbox costs reflect the $ billion charge fiscal year related the expansion our Xbox warranty, partially offset increased Xbox product costs reflecting growth unit console sales. The diluted earnings per share growth was impacted the $ billion Xbox charge fiscal year and share repurchases during fiscal year . Fiscal Year Outlook Global macroeconomic factors have strong correlation demand for our software, services, hardware, and online offerings. While see the potential for improvement calendar year , are unable predict the actual timing. the meantime, are positive about our relative market position and our product delivery plans. addition, remain focused executing the areas can control continuing provide high value products the lowest total cost ownership while managing our expenses. SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) The revenue and operating income (loss) amounts this section are presented basis consistent with accounting principles generally accepted the United States (\x93 . GAAP\x94) and include certain reconciling items attributable each the segments. Segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) presented basis consistent with our current internal management reporting, accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . Certain corporate-level activity has been excluded from segment operating results and analyzed separately. Prior period amounts have been recast conform the way internally managed and monitored performance the segment level during the current period. Client ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Operating income $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Client offerings consist premium and standard edition Windows operating systems. Premium editions are those that include additional functionality and are sold price above our standard editions. Premium editions include Windows Vista Business, Windows Vista Home Premium, Windows Vista Ultimate, Windows Vista Enterprise, PAGE Part Item Windows Professional, Windows Media Center, and Windows Tablet . Standard editions include Windows Vista Home Basic and Windows Home. Client revenue growth directly impacted growth purchases from original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94) that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. The differences between unit growth rates and revenue growth rates from year year are affected primarily changes the mix OEM Windows premium edition operating systems licensed percentage total OEM Windows operating systems licensed (\x93OEM premium mix\x94). Additional differences growth rates result from the impact from lower cost netbook PCs, which are sold with lower cost version Windows, changes geographic mix, and changes the channel mix products sold large, multi-national OEMs versus those sold local and regional system builders. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Client revenue decreased primarily result market weakness, especially PCs sold businesses. OEM revenue decreased $ billion % while OEM license units declined %. The decline OEM revenue reflects percentage point decline the OEM premium mix %. Based our estimates, total worldwide shipments from all sources experienced decline approximately % growth approximately %, driven changes demand emerging and developed markets. Client operating income decreased primarily reflecting decreased revenue and increased sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased advertising and marketing. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Client revenue increased reflecting growth licensing Windows Vista. the end fiscal year , more than million Windows Vista licenses had been sold (approximately million were sold during fiscal year ) and millions enterprise seats had been deployed. OEM revenue increased $ billion %, driven % growth OEM license units. Revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems increased $ million %, primarily from Enterprise Agreements and anti-piracy efforts emerging markets. During fiscal year , the OEM premium mix increased seven percentage points %, reflecting strong demand for Windows Vista Home Premium. estimate total worldwide shipments from all sources grew approximately % %, driven demand both emerging and mature markets. Client operating income increased reflecting increased revenue, partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses and cost revenue. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased expenses associated with our corporate sales force. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven Windows Vista product costs. Other The segment information discussed above presented the way internally managed and monitored performance the business group level fiscal years , , and . Effective July , , reorganized the Windows Live operations from Online Services Business Client better align our strategies and focus those areas. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Server and Tools licenses products, applications, tools, content, and services that are designed make information technology professionals and developers more productive and efficient. Server and Tools offerings consist server software licenses and client access licenses (\x93CAL\x94) for Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, and other server products. also offer developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier product support services, and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server products can run -site, partner-hosted environment, Microsoft- PAGE Part Item hosted environment. use multiple channels for licensing, including pre-installed OEM versions, licenses through partners, and licenses directly end customers. sell licenses both one-time licenses and multi-year volume licenses. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Server and Tools revenue increased reflecting growth both product and services revenue. Server and server application revenue (including CAL) and developer tools revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven growth SQL Server, Enterprise CAL Suites, and System Center revenue. This growth reflects recognition deferred revenue from previously signed agreements and continued adoption the Windows Server Platform and applications. Consulting and Premier product support services revenue increased $ million %, primarily due revenue from annuity support agreements. Foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $ million one percentage point increase revenue. Server and Tools operating income increased primarily due growth product revenue, partially offset increased research and development expenses and cost revenue. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily driven increased headcount-related expenses. Cost revenue increased $ million %, reflecting the growth support, online, and consulting services. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Server and Tools revenue increased reflecting growth product and services revenue and included favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates $ million four percentage points. Server and server application revenue (including CAL revenue) and developer tools revenue increased $ billion %, primarily driven growth volume licensing Windows Server and SQL Server products. This growth reflects broad adoption the Windows Platform and applications with the releases Windows Server and Visual Studio during fiscal year . Consulting and Premier product support services revenue increased $ million %, primarily due higher demand for consulting and support services corporate enterprises. Server and Tools operating income increased primarily due growth product revenue, partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses, cost revenue, and research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, due higher expenses associated with our corporate sales force. Cost revenue increased $ million %, reflecting the growth Consulting and Premier product support services. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily driven increased headcount-related expenses. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount from the prior year-end. Online Services Business ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( ) ( )% ( )% Online Services Business (\x93OSB\x94) consists online advertising platform with offerings for both publishers and advertisers, personal communications services, such email and instant messaging, online information offerings, such Bing, and the MSN portals and channels around the world. earn revenue primarily from online advertising, including search, display, email, messaging services, and advertiser and publisher tools. Revenue also generated through subscriptions and transactions generated from online paid services digital marketing and advertising agency services, and from MSN narrowband Internet access subscribers (\x93Access\x94). During the first quarter fiscal year , completed our acquisition aQuantive, Inc. (\x93aQuantive\x94), digital marketing business. aQuantive was consolidated into our results operations starting August , , the acquisition date. PAGE Part Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year OSB revenue decreased primarily result decreased online advertising and access revenue. Online advertising revenue decreased $ million %, $ billion, reflecting decrease display advertising, partially offset increase search advertising. Access revenue decreased $ million %, reflecting continued migration subscribers broadband other competitively-priced service providers. Foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $ million one percentage point decrease revenue. OSB operating loss increased due increased cost revenue and research and development expenses, and decreased revenue. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven increased online traffic acquisition, data center and equipment, and headcount-related costs. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily due increased headcount-related expenses. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year OSB revenue increased driven increased online advertising revenue and the inclusion aQuantive revenue, partially offset decreased access revenue. Online advertising revenue increased $ million %, $ billion. This increase reflects growth our existing online advertising business and includes aQuantive online advertising revenue $ million. Agency revenue, which solely derived from aQuantive, was $ million during fiscal year . Access revenue decreased $ million %, $ million, reflecting migration subscribers broadband other competitively-priced service providers. OSB operating loss increased driven increased cost revenue and other operating expenses, partially offset increased revenue. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven increased data center and equipment costs, online content expenses, and aQuantive-related expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily due increased amortization customer-related intangible assets $ million, increased headcount-related expenses, and increased marketing costs. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, and general and administrative expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased headcount-related expenses and merger and acquisition-related expenses. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount from the prior year-end. Other The segment information discussed above presented the way internally managed and monitored performance the business group level fiscal years , , and . Effective July , , reorganized the Windows Live operations from OSB Client better align our strategies and focus those areas. July , , announced that entered into -year agreement with Yahoo! Inc. (\x93Yahoo\x94). Under terms the agreement, Microsoft will provide the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo websites. believe this agreement will allow over time improve the effectiveness and increase the value our search offering through greater scale search queries and expanded and more competitive search and advertising marketplace. The transaction subject regulatory review. Both parties anticipate entering into more detailed definitive agreements prior closing the transaction which expected calendar year . See Note \x96 Subsequent Event the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ). Microsoft Business Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , \x96% % Operating income $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Microsoft Business Division (\x93MBD\x94) offerings consist the Microsoft Office system and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity through range programs, services, and software solutions. Growth revenue from the Microsoft Office system PAGE Part Item offerings, which generate over % MBD revenue, depends our ability add value the core Office product set and continue expand our product offerings other information worker areas such content management, enterprise search, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. evaluate our results based upon the nature the end user two primary parts: business revenue, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue; and consumer revenue, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year MBD revenue was flat reflecting decreased consumer revenue offset increased business revenue, and included favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates $ million two percentage points. Consumer revenue decreased $ million %, primarily result market weakness, shift lower-priced products, and pricing promotions the Microsoft Office system. Business revenue increased $ million %, primarily reflecting growth volume licensing agreement revenue and included % decrease Microsoft Dynamics customer billings. The growth volume licensing agreement revenue primarily reflects recognition deferred revenue from previously signed agreements. MBD operating income decreased reflecting increased cost revenue and research and development expenses, partially offset decreased sales and marketing expenses. Cost revenue increased $ million % primarily driven expenses associated with Fast Search & Transfer ASA (\x93FAST\x94) which acquired April , well online services infrastructure costs. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily driven increase headcount-related expenses associated with FAST. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $ million %, primarily driven decrease corporate marketing activities and headcount-related costs associated with our corporate sales force. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year MBD revenue increased reflecting growth licensing the Microsoft Office system and included favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates $ million four percentage points. Business revenue increased $ billion %, primarily result growth volume licensing agreement revenue and strong transactional license sales businesses. The increase business revenue also included % increase Microsoft Dynamics customer billings. Consumer revenue decreased $ million %, reflecting the consumer launch the Microsoft Office system fiscal year . MBD operating income increased reflecting growth revenue, partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, and cost revenue. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, reflecting increased expenses associated with our corporate sales force. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily driven increase headcount-related expenses and $ million -process research and development expense related the acquisition FAST. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven increase online services infrastructure costs and product costs related retail packaged product sales. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount from the prior year-end. Entertainment and Devices Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Operating income (loss) $ $ $ ( , ) ( )% * * Not meaningful Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) offerings include the Xbox platform (which includes the Microsoft Xbox video game console system, Xbox video games, Xbox Live, and Xbox accessories), the Zune PAGE Part Item digital music and entertainment platform, software games, online games and services, Mediaroom (our Internet protocol television software), the Microsoft Surface computing platform, mobile and embedded device platforms, and other devices. EDD leads the development efforts for our line consumer software and hardware products including application software for Apple\x92 Macintosh computers and Microsoft hardware products, and responsible for all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office and Windows operating systems. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year EDD revenue decreased across most lines business. Revenue from our non-gaming business decreased $ million %, primarily reflecting decreased Zune and hardware product revenue. Xbox platform and game revenue decreased $ million %, primarily result decreased revenue per Xbox console due price reductions during the past months, partially offset increased Xbox console sales and increased Xbox Live revenue. shipped million Xbox consoles during fiscal year , compared with million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . Foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $ million one percentage point decrease revenue. EDD operating income decreased primarily due decreased revenue and increased research and development expenses, partially offset decreased cost revenue. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased headcount-related expenses associated with the Windows Mobile device platform, driven recent acquisitions. Cost revenue decreased $ million %, primarily due decreased Xbox platform costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year EDD revenue increased primarily due increased Xbox platform sales. Xbox platform and game revenue increased $ billion % result increased Xbox console sales, video game sales led Halo , Xbox Live revenue, and Xbox accessory sales. shipped million Xbox consoles during fiscal year , compared with million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . EDD operating income increased primarily due increased revenue and decreased cost revenue, partially offset increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses. Cost revenue decreased $ million %, reflecting the impact the $ billion Xbox charge fiscal year (which primarily related the warranty expansion), partially offset increased Xbox product costs related increased unit console sales. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased headcount-related expenses and costs related the acquisition Danger, including $ million -process research and development expense. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased headcount-related expenses and increased bad debt expense. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount from the prior year-end. Corporate-Level Activity ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Corporate-level activity $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) % ( )% Certain corporate-level activity not allocated our segments. Those results include expenses such broad-based sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, information technology, corporate development and procurement activities, research and development and other costs, legal settlements and contingencies, and employee severance. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate-level expenses decreased during the twelve months ended June , , primarily reflecting decreased general and administrative and sales and marketing expenses, partially offset employee severance charges $ million. General and administrative expenses decreased $ billion %, primarily due decreased costs for legal settlements and contingencies. incurred $ million legal charges during the twelve months ended PAGE Part Item June , compared $ billion during the twelve months ended June , . The prior year costs were primarily related the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million). Sales and marketing expenses decreased $ million %, reflecting the resource management program implemented January . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate-level expenses increased, reflecting increased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies and % increase headcount-related expenses. incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year primarily related the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million) compared with $ million legal charges during fiscal year . The increase headcount-related expenses reflects increase headcount from the prior year-end. OPERATING EXPENSES Cost Revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Cost revenue $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % 2ppt ( )ppt Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred drive traffic our website and acquire online advertising space (\x93traffic acquisition costs\x94), costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, warranty costs, inventory valuation adjustments, costs associated with the delivery consulting services, and the amortization capitalized research and development costs associated with software products that have reached technological feasibility. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cost revenue increased during the twelve months ended June , , primarily reflecting increased online costs, including traffic acquisition, data center and equipment, and headcount costs, partially offset decreased Xbox platform costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cost revenue increased reflecting increased data center and equipment costs, online content expenses, and increased costs associated with the growth our consulting services, partially offset decreased Xbox costs. Xbox costs decreased because the $ billion charge fiscal year (which primarily related the expansion our Xbox warranty coverage), partially offset increased Xbox product costs, reflecting growth unit console sales. Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Research and development $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % 1ppt \x96ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, the amortization purchased software code and services content, and -process research and development. PAGE Part Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Research and development expenses increased during the twelve months ended June , , primarily reflecting % increase headcount-related costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Research and development expenses increased reflecting increased headcount-related expenses, increased product development costs, and -process research and development expenses related acquisitions during fiscal year . Headcount-related expenses increased %, reflecting increase headcount from the prior year-end. Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Sales and marketing $ , $ , $ , ( )% % percent revenue % % % \x96ppt ( )ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Effective July , , began presenting gains and losses resulting from foreign currency remeasurements component other income (expense). Prior July , , included gains and losses resulting from foreign currency remeasurements component sales and marketing expense. changed our presentation because this better reflects how manage these foreign currency exposures, such gains and losses arising from the remeasurement foreign currency transactions are incidental our operations. For the twelve months ended June , , $ million losses were reported other income (expense). For the twelve months ended June , and , $ million and $ million gains, respectively, were previously recorded component sales and marketing expense and have been recast other income (expense). Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Sales and marketing expenses decreased, primarily driven the resource management program implemented January . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Sales and marketing expenses increased, primarily reflecting increased headcount-related expenses and increased corporate marketing and advertising campaigns. Headcount-related expenses increased %, driven increase headcount from the prior year-end. General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus General and administrative $ , $ , $ , ( )% % percent revenue % % % ( )ppt 1ppt General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative headcount, and legal and other administrative fees. PAGE Part Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year General and administrative expenses decreased primarily reflecting decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. incurred legal charges $ million current year, compared with $ billion during fiscal year . The fiscal year legal costs were primarily related the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million). Fiscal year compared with fiscal year General and administrative expenses increased reflecting increased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies, increased consulting and professional fees, and increased headcount-related expenses. incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year , primarily related the European Commission fine, compared with $ million legal charges during fiscal year . Headcount-related expenses increased %, reflecting increase headcount from the prior year-end. Employee Severance January , announced and implemented resource management program reduce discretionary operating expenses, employee headcount, and capital expenditures. part this program, announced the elimination , positions research and development, marketing, sales, finance, legal, human resources, and information technology June , . During the current year, recorded employee severance charges $ million for the expected reduction employee headcount. Other Income (Expense) The components other income (expense) were follows: ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Dividends and interest $ $ $ , Net recognized gains (losses) investments ( ) Net gains (losses) derivatives ( ) ( ) Net gains (losses) foreign currency remeasurements ( ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ ( ) $ , $ , ( )% ( )% Effective July , , began presenting gains and losses resulting from foreign currency remeasurements component other income (expense). Prior July , , included gains and losses resulting from foreign currency remeasurements component sales and marketing expense. changed our presentation because this better reflects how manage these foreign currency exposures, such gains and losses arising from the remeasurement foreign currency transactions are incidental our operations. For the twelve months ended June , , $ million losses were reported other income (expense). For the twelve months ended June , and , $ million and $ million gains, respectively, were previously recorded component sales and marketing expense and have been recast other income (expense). Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments, including market declines subsequent the period end. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, evaluate general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability hold, plans sell, the investment. For fixed income securities, also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and PAGE Part Item sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense) and new cost basis the investment established. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash collateral recorded asset with corresponding liability. use derivative instruments manage risks related foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges are recognized other income (expense). These are generally offset unrealized gains and losses the underlying securities the investment portfolio and are recorded component other comprehensive income. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income decreased primarily reflecting lower interest rates our fixed-income investments. Net recognized losses investments increased primarily due higher other-than-temporary impairments that were partially offset gains sales certain equity investments held our strategic investments portfolio. Other-than-temporary impairments were $ million during the twelve months ended June , , compared with $ million during the twelve months ended June , and increased primarily due declines equity values result deterioration equity markets. Net losses derivatives increased primarily due losses equity, commodity, and interest rate derivatives the current period compared with gains the prior period. Net losses foreign currency remeasurements increased due the strengthening the . dollar, particularly the first half the current fiscal year. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income decreased reflecting lower interest rates our fixed-income investments and reduction the average balance interest-bearing investments owned. Net recognized gains investments, which include other-than-temporary impairments $ million during fiscal year and $ million during fiscal year , decreased primarily due declines equity values result the recent stock market decline. Net gains derivatives increased primarily due higher net gains equity, commodity, and interest rate derivatives. Income Taxes Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Our effective tax rates fiscal years and were % and %, respectively. While the fiscal year rate reflects higher mix foreign earnings taxed lower rates, the rate increased from the prior year because the fiscal year rate reflects the resolution tax positions relating our agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (\x93IRS\x94) settling the - examination, partially offset the European Commission fine which was not tax deductible. result the settlement and the impact subsequent years, paid the IRS approximately $ billion during fiscal year . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Our effective tax rates fiscal year and were % and %, respectively. The fiscal year rate was lower due the items noted above. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $ billion June , , compared with $ billion June , . Equity and other investments were $ billion June , , compared with $ billion June , . Our investments consist primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar-denominated securities, but also includes foreign-denominated securities order diversify risk. invest primarily short-term securities facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. result the special dividend paid the second quarter fiscal year and shares repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $ billion June , . Our retained deficit not expected affect our future ability operate, pay dividends, repay our debt given our continuing profitability and strong cash and financial position. PAGE Part Item general, and where applicable, use quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities determine fair value. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments, such exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, . treasuries, and agency securities. quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities are not available determine fair value, then use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly indirectly. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments such corporate notes and bonds, foreign government bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and certain agency securities. Level investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured using unobservable inputs are immaterial portion our portfolio. majority our investments are priced pricing vendors and are generally Level Level investments these vendors either provide quoted market price active market use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing used mainly when quoted price not available, the investment not priced our pricing vendors, when broker price more reflective fair values the market which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally labeled Level investments because the broker prices these investments based similar assets without applying significant adjustments. addition, all our broker-priced investments have sufficient level trading volume demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. Such controls include model validation, review key model inputs, analysis period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation prices where appropriate. While own certain mortgage- and asset-backed fixed-income securities, our portfolio June , does not contain direct exposure subprime mortgages structured vehicles that derive their value from subprime collateral. The majority the mortgage-backed securities are collateralized prime residential mortgages and carry % principal and interest guarantee, primarily from Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and Government National Mortgage Association. Debt Short-term Debt September , our Board Directors authorized debt financings $ billion. Pursuant the authorization, established commercial paper program providing for the issuance and sale $ billion short-term commercial paper. June , , $ billion the commercial paper was issued and outstanding with weighted average interest rate, including issuance costs, % and maturities days. September , also entered into $ billion six-month senior unsecured credit facility, principally support the commercial paper program. November , replaced the six-month credit facility with $ billion -day credit facility. This credit facility expires November , . March , entered into additional credit facility. This $ billion -day credit facility expires March , . June , , were compliance with the only financial covenant both credit agreements, which requires maintain coverage ratio least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization interest expense. amounts were drawn against these credit facilities during the year ended June , . Long-term Debt November , filed shelf registration statement with the . Securities and Exchange Commission that allows issue debt securities from time time pursuant the September authorization for debt financings $ billion. May , issued $ billion debt securities under that registration statement follows: $ billion aggregate principal amount % notes due , $ billion aggregate principal amount % notes due , and $ million aggregate principal amount % notes due (collectively \x93the Notes\x94). Interest the Notes will payable semi-annually June and December each year, commencing December , , holders record the preceding May and November . The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and will rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. intend use the net proceeds from sales the debt securities for general corporate purposes, which may include funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases our capital stock, and acquisitions. PAGE Part Item Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue comprised the following items: Volume Licensing Programs Represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Undelivered Elements Represents the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis and free post-delivery telephone support. This revenue deferral applicable for Windows and prior versions shipped retail packaged products, products licensed OEMs, and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs. The amount recorded unearned based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and one-half years for Windows operating systems. Undelivered elements include $ million deferred revenue related the Windows Upgrade Option program. The program, which started June , , allows customers who purchase PCs from participating computer makers retailers with certain versions Windows Vista receive upgrade the corresponding version Windows minimal cost. addition, purchasers retail packaged Windows Vista may also qualify for free discounted upgrade the equivalent Windows product with participating retailers participating markets when the product becomes generally available. Other Represents payments for post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future, online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed, Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products, Xbox Live subscriptions, Mediaroom, and other offerings for which have been paid upfront and earn the revenue when provide the service software, otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected recognition unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Recognition Unearned Revenue Three months ended: September , $ , December , , March , , June , , Thereafter , Total $ , Cash Flows Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flow from operations decreased $ billion due payment approximately $ billion the IRS connection with our settlement the - audit examination. This impact was partially offset the fiscal year payment the $ billion ( \x80 million) European Commission fine. Cash used for financing decreased $ billion primarily due $ billion net cash proceeds from issuance short-term and long-term debt fiscal PAGE Part Item year . Financing activities also included $ billion decrease common stock repurchased, which was offset $ billion decline common stock issued. Cash used for investing increased $ billion due $ billion rise purchases investments along with $ billion decrease cash from investment sales and maturities. These impacts were partially offset $ billion decrease cash paid for acquisition companies, including the purchase aQuantive fiscal year . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flow from operations increased $ billion due increase cash received from customers driven % revenue growth, partially offset the $ billion ( \x80 million) payment the European Commission fine. Cash used for financing decreased $ billion primarily due $ billion decrease common stock repurchases, partially offset $ billion decrease cash proceeds from the issuance common stock. Cash used for investing was $ billion for fiscal year compared with cash provided $ billion for fiscal year . This decrease was primarily due $ billion increase cash paid for acquisition companies, reflecting the purchase aQuantive the first quarter fiscal year , $ million increase purchases property and equipment, and $ billion decrease cash from combined investment purchases, sales, and maturities. Stockholders\x92 equity June , , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment under which incurred rental expense totaling $ million, $ million, and $ million, fiscal years , , and , respectively. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability capital resources. Share Repurchases September , , announced the completion the two repurchase programs approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. September , , also announced that our Board Directors approved new share repurchase program authorizing $ billion share repurchases with expiration date September , . repurchased million shares for $ billion during the fiscal year ended June , ; million shares were repurchased for $ billion under the repurchase program approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year and million shares were repurchased for $ billion under the repurchase program approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year . June , , approximately $ billion remained the $ billion approved repurchase amount. All repurchases were made using cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without notice. Dividends During fiscal years and , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Per Share Dividend Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) (Fiscal year ) September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , (Fiscal year ) September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ September , PAGE Part Item believe existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations, should sufficient meet operating requirements, regular quarterly dividends, debt repayment schedules, and share repurchases. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. regularly assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products and certain other matters. evaluate estimated losses for these indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (\x93FIN\x94) . , Guarantor\x92 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees Indebtedness Others . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered significant costs result these obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related these indemnifications our financial statements. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations June , . expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash flows from operations. ( millions) Payments Due Period Fiscal Years - - and Thereafter Total Long-term debt: ( ) Principal payments $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ , Interest payments , , Construction commitments ( ) \x96 \x96 \x96 Lease obligations: Capital leases \x96 Operating leases ( ) , Purchase commitments ( ) , \x96 , Other long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 Total contractual obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) See Note \x96 Debt the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ) ( ) These amounts represent commitments for the construction buildings. ( ) These amounts represent undiscounted future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases. ( ) These amounts represent purchase commitments, including all open purchase orders and all contracts that are take- -pay contracts that are not presented construction commitments above. ( ) have excluded long-term tax contingencies and other tax liabilities $ billion and other long-term contingent liabilities $ million (related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits) from the amounts presented, the amounts that will settled cash are not known and the timing any payments uncertain. have also excluded unearned revenue $ billion and non-cash items $ million. PAGE Part Item RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements April , , adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) Staff Positions (\x93FSP\x94) FAS - , FSP FAS - and FAS - , and FSP FAS - and APB - . These FSPs are intended provide additional application guidance and enhance disclosures about fair value measurements and impairments securities. FSP FAS - clarifies the objective and method fair value measurement even when there has been significant decrease market activity for the asset being measured. FSP FAS - and FAS - establishes new model for measuring other-than-temporary impairments for debt securities, including establishing criteria for when recognize write-down through earnings versus other comprehensive income. FSP FAS - and APB - expands the fair value disclosures required for all financial instruments within the scope SFAS . , Disclosures about Fair Value Financial Instruments, interim periods. Adoption these FSPs did not have significant impact our accounting for financial instruments but did expand our associated disclosures. January , , adopted SFAS . , Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, amendment FASB Statement . . SFAS . requires additional disclosures about the Company\x92 objectives using derivative instruments and hedging activities, the method accounting for such instruments under SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , and its related interpretations, and tabular disclosures the effects such instruments and related hedged items our financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. See Note \x96 Derivatives the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ). July , , adopted SFAS . , Fair Value Measurements , for all financial assets and liabilities and nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis ( least annually). SFAS . defines fair value, establishes framework for measuring fair value generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This statement does not require any new fair value measurements, but provides guidance how measure fair value providing fair value hierarchy used classify the source the information. See Note \x96 Investments the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item ). SFAS . , The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities-Including amendment FASB Statement . , became effective for July , . SFAS . gives the irrevocable option elect fair value for the initial and subsequent measurement for certain financial assets and liabilities contract- -contract basis with the difference between the carrying value before election the fair value option and the fair value recorded upon election adjustment beginning retained deficit. June , , had not elected the fair value option for any eligible financial asset liability. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted June , the FASB issued SFAS . , Amendments FASB Interpretation . ( ) , which effective for beginning July , . This Statement amends FIN ( ), Consolidation Variable Interest Entities interpretation ARB . , require revised evaluations whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. believe the adoption this pronouncement will not have material impact our financial statements. February , the FASB issued FSP FAS - , Effective Date FASB Statement . , which delays the effective date SFAS . for July , , for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis ( least annually). believe the adoption the delayed items SFAS . will not have material impact our financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . ( ), Business Combinations , which replaces SFAS . . The statement retains the fundamental requirements SFAS . that the acquisition method accounting (previously referred the purchase method accounting) used for all business combinations, but requires number changes, including changes the way assets and liabilities are recognized result business combinations. also requires the capitalization -process research and development fair value and requires the expensing acquisition-related costs incurred. April , the FASB issued FSP FAS ( )- which amends SFAS . ( ) establishing model account for certain pre-acquisition contingencies. Under the FSP, PAGE Part Item acquirer required recognize fair value asset acquired liability assumed business combination that arises from contingency the acquisition-date fair value that asset liability can determined during the measurement period. the acquisition-date fair value cannot determined, then the acquirer should follow the recognition criteria SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, and FASB Interpretation . , Reasonable Estimation the Amount Loss \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . . SFAS . ( ) and FSP FAS ( )- are effective for beginning July , , and will apply prospectively business combinations completed after that date. The impact the adoption SFAS . ( ) and FSP FAS ( )- will depend the nature acquisitions completed after the date adoption. December , the FASB issued SFAS . , Noncontrolling Interests Consolidated Financial Statements \x96 amendment ARB . , which changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests. Minority interests will recharacterized noncontrolling interests and will reported component equity separate from the parent\x92 equity, and purchases sales equity interests that not result change control will accounted for equity transactions. addition, net income attributable the noncontrolling interest will included net income and, upon loss control, the interest sold, well any interest retained, will recorded fair value with any gain loss recognized net income. SFAS . effective for beginning July , , and will apply prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which will apply retrospectively. believe the adoption SFAS . will not have material impact our financial statements. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for contingencies, accounting for income taxes, accounting for stock-based compensation, and accounting for product warranties. Revenue Recognition account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants Statement Position (\x93SOP\x94) - , Software Revenue Recognition . The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94) fair value exists for those elements. portion the revenue related Windows recorded unearned due undelivered elements including, some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the VSOE fair value for those elements using the residual method relative fair value method. Unearned revenue due undelivered elements recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related products\x92 life cycles. Revenue related Windows Vista not subject similar deferral because there are significant undelivered elements. However, Windows Vista revenue subject deferral result the Windows Upgrade Option program which started June , . The program allows customers who purchase PCs from participating computer makers retailers with certain versions Windows Vista receive upgrade the corresponding version Windows minimal cost. addition, purchasers retail packaged Windows Vista may also qualify for free discounted upgrade the equivalent Windows product with participating retailers participating markets when the product becomes generally available. Accordingly, estimated revenue related the undelivered Windows product deferred until the product delivered. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. Impairment Investment Securities SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities , Staff Accounting Bulletin . , and FSP FAS - and FAS - , Recognition and Presentation Other-Than-Temporary Impairments , provide guidance PAGE Part Item determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability hold, plans sell, the investment. For fixed income securities, also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other than temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense) and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry, and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. Goodwill SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, estimation the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. allocate goodwill reporting units based the reporting unit expected benefit from the combination. evaluate our reporting units annual basis and, necessary, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. During the second quarter fiscal year , changed the date our annual impairment test from July May . The change was made more closely align the impairment testing date with our long-range planning and forecasting process. believe the change accounting principle related changing our annual impairment testing date did not delay, accelerate, avoid impairment charge. have determined that this change accounting principle preferable under the circumstances and does not result adjustments our financial statements when applied retrospectively. During fiscal year , the annual impairment test was performed July , and was performed again May , . Research and Development Costs account for research and development costs accordance with applicable accounting pronouncements, including SFAS . , Accounting for Research and Development Costs , and SFAS . , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . SFAS . specifies that costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product should charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released manufacturing. The amortization these costs included cost revenue over the estimated life the products. PAGE Part Item Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , requires that estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our results operations, financial position, our cash flows. Income Taxes SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Accruals for uncertain tax positions are provided for accordance with the requirements FIN . , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . . Under FIN . , may recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such position should measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN . also provides guidance derecognition income tax assets and liabilities, classification current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows. Stock-Based Compensation account for stock-based compensation accordance with SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment . Under the fair value recognition provisions this statement, stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the fair value the award and recognized expense over the requisite service period. Determining the fair value stock-based awards the grant date requires judgment, including estimating expected dividends. addition, judgment also required estimating the amount stock-based awards that are expected forfeited. actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results operations could impacted. Product Warranties account for product warranties accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies . provide for the estimated costs hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranty, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and country which business, but generally include parts and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software warranty, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. PAGE Part Item Statement Management\x92 Responsibility for Financial Statements Management responsible for the preparation the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based management\x92 estimates and judgments, have been prepared conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems provide reasonable assurance reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented written policies, organizational structure providing division responsibilities, careful selection and training qualified personnel, and program internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, audit and render opinion the consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely independent directors the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm ensure that each meeting its responsibilities and discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access the Audit Committee. Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer PAGE Part Item ', 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK RISKS are exposed economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. portion these risks hedged, but they may impact results operations cash flows and financial condition. Foreign Currency. Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency positions. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Interest Rate. Our fixed-income portfolio diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily investment-grade securities. The credit risk and average maturity the fixed-income portfolio managed achieve economic returns that correlate certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. addition, use \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets gain exposure agency and mortgage-backed securities. Equity. Our equity portfolio consists global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject market price risk. manage the securities relative certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return correlate with these indices. Commodity. use broad-based commodity exposures enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our investment portfolio has exposure variety commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. manage these exposures relative global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return correlate with these indices. VALUE- -RISK use value- -risk (\x93VaR\x94) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VaR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VaR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with . GAAP, but used risk estimation and management tool. The distribution the potential changes total market value all holdings computed based the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. The VaR calculated the total loss that will not exceeded the percentile confidence level , alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the VaR out , cases. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. The following table sets forth the one-day VaR for substantially all our positions June , and and for the year ended June , : ( millions) Year Ended June , Risk Categories June , June , Average High Low Foreign currency $ $ $ $ $ Interest rate Equity Commodity Total one-day VaR for the combined risk categories was $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VaR % less June , , and % less June , , than the sum the separate risk categories the above table due the diversification benefit the overall portfolio. PAGE Part Item ', 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Employee severance \x96 \x96 Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income (expense) ( ) , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments (including securities pledged collateral $ , and $ , ) , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ and $ , , Inventories Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net accumulated depreciation $ , and $ , , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net , , Deferred income taxes Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Short-term debt , \x96 Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , Short-term unearned revenue , , Securities lending payable , , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt , \x96 Long-term unearned revenue , , Other long-term liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ and $ , ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash from operations: Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , , Stock-based compensation , , , Net recognized losses (gains) investments and derivatives ( ) ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred income taxes Deferral unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable , ( , ) ( , ) Other current assets ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities ( , ) ( ) ( ) Other long-term liabilities , ( ) , Net cash from operations , , , Financing Short-term borrowings, maturities days less, net , \x96 \x96 Proceeds from issuance debt, maturities longer than days , \x96 \x96 Repayments debt, maturities longer than days ( ) \x96 \x96 Common stock issued , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation Other ( ) \x96 ( ) Net cash used financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Securities lending payable ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash from (used ) investing ( , ) ( , ) , Effect exchange rates cash and cash equivalents ( ) Net change cash and cash equivalents ( , ) , ( ) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and cash equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock-based compensation income tax benefits (deficiencies) ( ) ( ) Other, net ( ) Balance, end period , , , Retained deficit Balance, beginning period ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x96 adoption FIN \x96 ( ) \x96 Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x96 adoption EITF - \x96 ( ) \x96 Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Net unrealized gains derivatives Net unrealized gains (losses) investments ( ) ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Comprehensive income , , , Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting Principles The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Principles Consolidation The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which exercise significant influence but not control and are not the primary beneficiary are accounted for using the equity method. Investments which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee and which not have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the cost method. Estimates and Assumptions Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies, product warranties, product life cycles, product returns, and stock-based compensation forfeiture rates; assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; estimating the fair value and goodwill impairment for our reporting units; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded Other Comprehensive Income (\x93OCI\x94). Effective July , , began presenting gains and losses resulting from foreign currency remeasurements component other income (expense). Prior July , , included gains and losses resulting from foreign currency remeasurements component sales and marketing expense. changed our presentation because this better reflects how manage these foreign currency exposures, such gains and losses arising from the remeasurement foreign currency transactions are incidental our operations. Prior period amounts have been recast conform the current period presentation. See Note \x96 Other Income (Expense). Revenue Recognition Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. enter into certain arrangements where are obligated deliver multiple products and services (multiple elements). these arrangements, generally allocate the total revenue among the elements based the sales price each element when sold separately (vendor-specific objective evidence). Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped. portion the revenue related Windows recorded unearned due undelivered elements including, some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the vendor-specific objective evidence fair value for those elements using the residual method relative fair value method. Unearned revenue due undelivered elements recognized PAGE Part Item ratably straight-line basis over the related products\x92 life cycles. Revenue related Windows Vista not subject similar deferral because there are significant undelivered elements. However, Windows Vista revenue subject deferral result the Windows Upgrade Option program which started June , . The program allows customers who purchase PCs from participating computer makers retailers with certain versions Windows Vista receive upgrade the corresponding version Windows minimal cost. addition, purchasers retail packaged Windows Vista may also qualify for free discounted upgrade the equivalent Windows product with participating retailers participating markets when the product becomes generally available. Accordingly, estimated revenue related the undelivered Windows product deferred until the product delivered. Revenue from multi-year licensing arrangements are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include rights receive future versions software product when-and- -available basis under Open and Select volume licensing programs (software assurance). addition, other multi-year licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis under Open, Select, and Enterprise Agreement volume licensing programs. Premier support services agreements, MSN Internet Access subscriptions, Xbox Live, and Microsoft Developer Network subscriptions are also accounted for subscriptions. Revenue related our Xbox game console, games published , and other hardware components generally recognized when ownership transferred the retailers. Revenue related games published third parties for use the Xbox platform recognized when games are manufactured the game publishers. Display advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Consulting revenue for fixed-price services arrangements recognized services are provided. Revenue generally recognized net any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted governmental authorities. Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred drive traffic our website and acquire online advertising space (\x93traffic acquisitions costs\x94), costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, warranty costs, inventory valuation adjustments, costs associated with the delivery consulting services, and the amortization capitalized research and development costs associated with software products that have reached technological feasibility. Capitalized research and development costs are amortized over the estimated lives the products. Product Warranty provide for the estimated costs fulfilling our obligations under hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranties, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and the country which business, but generally include parts and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software warranties, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the estimated life the software. Research and Development Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, the amortization purchased software code and services content, and -process research and development. Such costs related software development are included research and development expense until PAGE Part Item the point that technological feasibility reached, which for our software products, generally shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Once technological feasibility reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized cost revenue over the estimated lives the products. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. Employee Severance record employee severance when specific plan has been approved management, the plan has been communicated employees, and unlikely that significant changes will made the plan. Stock-Based Compensation account for stock-based compensation accordance with SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment . Under the fair value recognition provisions this statement, stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the fair value the award and recognized expense over the applicable vesting period the stock award (generally four five years) using the straight-line method. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain income and expenses are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. Financial Instruments consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. The fair value these investments approximates their carrying value. general, investments with original maturities greater than three months and remaining maturities less than one year are classified short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments classified long-term include both debt and equity instruments. Debt and publicly-traded equity securities are classified available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected OCI. Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost using the equity method. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities enhance investment income. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Collateral and security interests received (securities pledged collateral) are determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash collateral recorded asset with corresponding liability. Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology quarterly basis that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability hold, plans PAGE Part Item sell, the investment. For fixed income securities, also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense) and new cost basis the investment established. Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. See Note \x96 Derivatives. Our current financial liabilities, including our short-term debt, have fair values that approximate their carrying values. Our long-term financial liabilities consist long-term debt which recorded the balance sheet issuance price less unamortized discount. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ $ Charged costs and other Write-offs ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis through charge cost revenue. Property and Equipment Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally three years. Goodwill Goodwill tested for impairment annual basis and between annual tests indicators potential impairment exist, using fair-value-based approach. During the second quarter fiscal year , changed the date our annual impairment test from July May . The change was made more closely align the impairment testing date with our long-range planning and forecasting process. believe the change our annual impairment testing date did not delay, accelerate, avoid impairment charge. have determined that this change accounting principle preferable under the circumstances and does not result adjustments our financial statements when applied retrospectively. See Note \x96 Goodwill. PAGE Part Item Intangible Assets Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically taking into account events circumstances that may warrant revised estimates useful lives that may indicate the asset may impaired. All our intangible assets are subject amortization. material impairments intangible assets have been identified during any the periods presented. Subsequent Events evaluated events occurring between the end our most recent fiscal year and July , , the date the financial statements were issued. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements April , , adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) Staff Positions (\x93FSP\x94) FAS - , FSP FAS - and FAS - , and FSP FAS - and APB - . These FSPs are intended provide additional application guidance and enhance disclosures about fair value measurements and impairments securities. FSP FAS - clarifies the objective and method fair value measurement even when there has been significant decrease market activity for the asset being measured. FSP FAS - and FAS - establishes new model for measuring other-than-temporary impairments for debt securities, including establishing criteria for when recognize write-down through earnings versus other comprehensive income. FSP FAS - and APB - expands the fair value disclosures required for all financial instruments within the scope SFAS . , Disclosures about Fair Value Financial Instruments, interim periods. Adoption these FSPs did not have significant impact our accounting for financial instruments but did expand our associated disclosures. January , , adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, amendment FASB Statement . . SFAS . requires additional disclosures about the Company\x92 objectives using derivative instruments and hedging activities, the method accounting for such instruments under SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , and its related interpretations, and tabular disclosures the effects such instruments and related hedged items our financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. See Note \x96 Derivatives. July , , adopted SFAS . , Fair Value Measurements , for all financial assets and liabilities and nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis ( least annually). SFAS . defines fair value, establishes framework for measuring fair value generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This statement does not require any new fair value measurements, but provides guidance how measure fair value providing fair value hierarchy used classify the source the information. See Note \x96 Investments. SFAS . , The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities-Including amendment FASB Statement . , became effective for July , . SFAS . gives the irrevocable option elect fair value for the initial and subsequent measurement for certain financial assets and liabilities contract- -contract basis with the difference between the carrying value before election the fair value option and the fair value recorded upon election adjustment beginning retained deficit. June , , had not elected the fair value option for any eligible financial asset liability. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted June , the FASB issued SFAS . , Amendments FASB Interpretation . ( ) , which effective for beginning July , . This Statement amends Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (\x93FIN\x94) . ( ), Consolidation Variable Interest Entities interpretation ARB . , require revised evaluations whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. believe the adoption this pronouncement will not have material impact our financial statements. February , the FASB issued FSP FAS - , Effective Date FASB Statement . , which delays the effective date SFAS . for July , , for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except PAGE Part Item for items that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis ( least annually). believe the adoption the delayed items SFAS . will not have material impact our financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . ( ), Business Combinations , which replaces SFAS . . The statement retains the fundamental requirements SFAS . that the acquisition method accounting (previously referred the purchase method accounting) used for all business combinations, but requires number changes, including changes the way assets and liabilities are recognized result business combinations. also requires the capitalization -process research and development fair value and requires the expensing acquisition-related costs incurred. April , the FASB issued FSP FAS ( )- which amends SFAS . ( ) establishing model account for certain pre-acquisition contingencies. Under the FSP, acquirer required recognize fair value asset acquired liability assumed business combination that arises from contingency the acquisition-date fair value that asset liability can determined during the measurement period. the acquisition-date fair value cannot determined, then the acquirer should follow the recognition criteria SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, and FASB Interpretation . , Reasonable Estimation the Amount Loss \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . . SFAS . ( ) and FSP FAS ( )- are effective for beginning July , , and will apply prospectively business combinations completed after that date. The impact the adoption SFAS . ( ) and FSP FAS ( )- will depend the nature acquisitions completed after the date adoption. December , the FASB issued SFAS . , Noncontrolling Interests Consolidated Financial Statements \x96 amendment ARB . , which changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests. Minority interests will recharacterized noncontrolling interests and will reported component equity separate from the parent\x92 equity, and purchases sales equity interests that not result change control will accounted for equity transactions. addition, net income attributable the noncontrolling interest will included net income and, upon loss control, the interest sold, well any interest retained, will recorded fair value with any gain loss recognized net income. SFAS . effective for beginning July , , and will apply prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which will apply retrospectively. believe the adoption SFAS . will not have material impact our financial statements. NOTE EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components basic and diluted earnings per share are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June , Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect stock-based awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings per share: Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ For the years ended June , , , and , million, million, and million shares, respectively, were attributable outstanding stock-based awards and were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. PAGE Part Item NOTE OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) The components other income (expense) were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Dividends and interest $ $ $ , Net recognized gains (losses) investments ( ) Net gains (losses) derivatives ( ) ( ) Net gains (losses) foreign currency remeasurements ( ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ ( ) $ , $ , Effective July , , began presenting gains and losses resulting from foreign currency remeasurements component other income (expense). Prior July , , included gains and losses resulting from foreign currency remeasurements component sales and marketing expense. changed our presentation because this better reflects how manage these foreign currency exposures, such gains and losses arising from the remeasurement foreign currency transactions are incidental our operations. For fiscal year , $ million losses were reported other income (expense). For fiscal years and , $ million and $ million gains, respectively, were previously recorded component sales and marketing expense and have been recast other income (expense). Net recognized gains (losses) investments included other-than-temporary impairments $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. Realized gains and losses from sales available-for-sale securities (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) were $ billion and $ million, respectively, fiscal year , $ million and $ million, respectively, fiscal year , and $ million and $ million, respectively, fiscal year . NOTE INVESTMENTS Investment Components, Including Associated Derivatives ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity and Other Investments June , Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds , \x96 ( ) \x96 Commercial paper , \x96 \x96 , , \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , , \x96 Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Municipal securities ( ) \x96 Common and preferred stock , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 ( ) Total $ , $ , $( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity and Other Investments June , Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds , ( ) , Commercial paper \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit , \x96 \x96 , , \x96 . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , , Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , , \x96 Municipal securities ( ) \x96 Common and preferred stock , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Unrealized Losses Investments Investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than months and months greater and their related fair values were follows: Less than Months Months Greater Total ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Total Fair Value Unrealized Losses June , Mutual funds $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) . Government and Agency securities , ( ) \x96 \x96 , ( ) Foreign government bonds , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Mortgage-backed securities ( ) \x96 \x96 ( ) Corporate notes and bonds ( ) ( ) , ( ) Municipal securities ( ) \x96 \x96 ( ) Common and preferred stock , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Less than Months Months Greater Total ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Total Fair Value Unrealized Losses June , Mutual funds $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) . Government and Agency securities ( ) \x96 \x96 ( ) Foreign government bonds , ( ) \x96 \x96 , ( ) Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) \x96 \x96 , ( ) Corporate notes and bonds ( ) ( ) , ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Common and preferred stock ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) PAGE Part Item June , , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed-income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed-income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities, and $ million related international equity securities. June , , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed-income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed-income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities, and $ million related international equity securities. Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. Management does not believe any unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairments based our evaluation available evidence June , . June , , the recorded basis and estimated fair value common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded was $ million. June , , the recorded basis and estimated fair value these investments was $ million. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. Debt Investment Maturities ( millions) Cost Basis Estimated Fair Value Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through ten years , , Due after ten years , , Total $ , $ , NOTE DERIVATIVES use derivative instruments manage risks related foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Our derivative programs include strategies that both qualify and not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Foreign Currency Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Options and forward contracts are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash-flow hedging instruments. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. June , , the total notional amount such foreign exchange contracts was $ billion. Foreign currency risks related certain non- . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair-value hedging instruments. June , , the total notional amount these foreign exchange contracts sold was $ billion. Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments are also used manage the variability exchange rates accounts receivable, cash, and intercompany positions, and manage other foreign currency exposures. June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Equity Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject market price risk. Market price risk managed relative broad-based global and domestic equity indices using certain convertible preferred investments, options, futures, and swap contracts not designated hedging instruments. From time time, hedge our price PAGE Part Item risk, may use and designate equity derivatives hedging instruments, including puts, calls, swaps, and forwards. June , , the total notional amounts designated and non-designated equity contracts purchased and sold were immaterial. Interest Rate Securities held our fixed-income portfolio are subject different interest rate risks based their various maturities. The average maturity the fixed-income portfolio managed achieve economic returns which correlate certain broad-based fixed-income indices using exchange-traded option and futures contracts and over-the-counter swap and option contracts, none which are designated hedging instruments. June , , the total notional amount fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. addition, use \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets gain exposure agency and mortgage-backed securities. These meet the definition derivative instrument under SFAS . cases where physical delivery the assets not taken the earliest available delivery date. June , , the total notional derivative amount mortgage contracts purchased was $ billion. Credit Our fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment-grade securities. use credit default swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments, manage credit exposures relative broad-based indices and facilitate portfolio diversification. use credit default swaps they are low cost way managing exposure individual credit risks groups credit risks while continuing improve liquidity. June , , the total notional amounts credit contracts purchased and sold were immaterial. Commodity use broad-based commodity exposures enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. use swap and futures contracts, not designated hedging instruments, generate and manage exposures broad-based commodity indices. use derivatives commodities they are low-cost alternatives the purchase and storage variety commodities, including, but not limited , precious metals, energy, and grain. June , , the total notional amounts commodity contracts purchased and sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features Certain our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that require our issued and outstanding long-term unsecured debt maintain investment grade credit rating and require maintain minimum liquidity $ billion. the extent fail meet these requirements, collateral will required for posting, similar the standard convention related over-the-counter derivatives. June , , our long-term unsecured debt rating was AAA, and cash investments were excess $ billion. result, collateral required posted. PAGE Part Item Gross Fair Values Derivative Instruments (Excluding FIN . ( ) Netting) June , ( millions) Foreign Exchange Contracts Equity Contracts Interest Rate Contracts Credit Contracts Commodity Contracts Total Derivatives Assets Derivatives not designated hedging instruments Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Derivatives designated hedging instruments Short-term investments $ $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ Other current assets \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Equity and other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ $ $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ Total assets ( ) $ $ $ $ $ $ Liabilities Derivatives not designated hedging instruments Other current liabilities $( ) $ ( ) $( ) $( ) $( ) $( ) Derivatives designated hedging instruments Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ ( ) Total liabilities ( ) $( ) $ ( ) $( ) $( ) $( ) $( ) ( ) FIN . , Offsetting Amounts Related Certain Contracts \x96 interpretation APB . and FASB Statement . , permits the netting derivative assets and derivative liabilities when legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. These amounts include fair value adjustments related our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk. ( ) See Note \x96 Fair Value Measurements. Fair-Value Hedges For derivative instrument designated fair-value hedge, the gain (loss) recognized earnings the period change together with the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the risk being hedged. For options designated fair-value hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. During fiscal year , recognized other income (expense) the following gains (losses) fair value hedged derivatives and their related hedged items: ( millions) Foreign Exchange Contracts Equity Contracts Derivatives $ $ Hedged items ( ) ( ) Total $ $ ( ) PAGE Part Item Cash-Flow Hedges For derivative instrument designated cash-flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain (loss) initially reported component other comprehensive income (\x93OCI\x94) and subsequently recognized earnings when the hedged exposure recognized earnings. For options designated cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains (losses) derivatives representing either hedge components excluded from the assessment effectiveness hedge ineffectiveness are recognized earnings. During fiscal year , recognized the following gains (losses) related foreign exchange contracts: ( millions) Effective portion: Gain recognized OCI, net tax effect $ $ Gain reclassified from accumulated OCI into revenue $ Amount excluded from effectiveness assessment and ineffective portion: Loss recognized other income (expense) $ ( ) estimate that $ million net derivative gains included OCI will reclassified into earnings within the next months. significant amounts gains (losses) were reclassified from OCI into earnings result forecasted transactions that failed occur during fiscal year . Non-Designated Derivatives Gains (losses) from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges are recognized other income (expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such commodity contracts, the gains (losses) below are generally economically offset unrealized gains (losses) the underlying securities and are recorded component OCI. The amounts recognized during fiscal year were follows: ( millions) Foreign exchange contracts $ ( ) Equity contracts ( ) Interest-rate contracts Credit contracts ( ) Commodity contracts ( ) Total $ ( ) Gains (losses) for foreign exchange, equity, interest rate, credit, and commodity contracts presented other income statement line items were immaterial for fiscal year and have been excluded from the table above. NOTE FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS SFAS . defines fair value the price that would received upon sale asset paid upon transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date and the principal most advantageous market for that asset liability. The fair value should calculated based assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability, not assumptions specific the entity. addition, the fair value liabilities should include consideration non-performance risk, including our own credit risk. addition defining fair value, SFAS . expands the disclosure requirements around fair value and establishes fair value hierarchy for valuation inputs. The hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three levels based the extent which inputs used measuring fair value are observable the market. Each fair value measurement PAGE Part Item reported one the three levels, which determined the lowest level input that significant the fair value measurement its entirety. These levels are: \x95 Level \x96 inputs are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments traded active markets. \x95 Level \x96 inputs are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments active markets, quoted prices for identical similar instruments markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable the market can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. \x95 Level \x96 inputs are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\x92 estimates assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. The fair values are therefore determined using model-based techniques that include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models, and similar techniques. The following section describes the valuation methodologies use measure financial assets and liabilities fair value. Investments Other Than Derivatives Investments other than derivatives primarily include . Government and Agency securities, foreign government bonds, mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper, corporate notes and bonds, and common and preferred stock. general, and where applicable, use quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities determine fair value. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments, such domestic and international equities, . treasuries, exchange-traded mutual funds, and agency securities. quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities are not available determine fair value, then use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly indirectly. These investments are included Level and consist primarily corporate notes and bonds, foreign government bonds, mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper, and certain agency securities. Our Level assets primarily include investments certain corporate bonds. value the Level corporate bonds using internally developed valuation models, inputs which include interest rate curves, credit spreads, stock prices, and volatilities. Unobservable inputs used these models are significant the fair values the investments. Derivatives general, and where applicable, use quoted prices active market for identical derivative assets and liabilities that are traded exchanges. These derivative assets and liabilities are included Level . The fair values for the derivative assets and liabilities included Level are estimated using industry standard valuation models, such the Black-Scholes model. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. Level derivative assets and liabilities primarily include certain over-the-counter options, futures, and swap contracts. certain cases, market-based observable inputs are not available and use management judgment develop assumptions determine fair value. These derivative assets and liabilities are included Level and primarily represent derivatives for foreign equities. PAGE Part Item Assets and Liabilities Measured Fair Value Recurring Basis The following table presents our assets and liabilities June , , which are measured fair value recurring basis: ( millions) Level Level Level Gross Fair Value FIN . Netting ( ) Net Fair Value Assets Mutual funds $ $ \x96 $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ Commercial paper \x96 , \x96 , \x96 , Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 . Government and Agency securities , , \x96 , \x96 , Foreign government bonds , \x96 , \x96 , Mortgage-backed securities \x96 , \x96 , \x96 , Corporate notes and bonds \x96 , , \x96 , Municipal securities \x96 \x96 \x96 Common and preferred stock , , \x96 , Derivatives ( ) Total $ , $ , $ $ , $( ) $ , Liabilities Derivatives $ $ $ \x96 $ $( ) $ ( ) FIN . , Offsetting Amounts Related Certain Contracts \x96 interpretation APB . and FASB Statement . , permits the netting derivative assets and derivative liabilities when legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. These amounts include fair value adjustments related our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk. Changes Level Instruments Measured Fair Value Recurring Basis The majority our Level instruments consist investment securities classified available-for-sale with changes fair value included other comprehensive income. The following table presents the changes Level instruments measured recurring basis for the year ended June , : ( millions) Corporate Notes and Bonds Common and Preferred Stock Derivative Assets Total Balance, beginning period $ $ $ $ Total realized and unrealized gains (losses): Included other income (expense) ( ) ( ) Included other comprehensive income \x96 \x96 Purchases, issuances, and settlements \x96 ( ) ( ) Transfers (out) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ $ Change unrealized gains (losses) included other income (expense) related assets held June , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) PAGE Part Item Assets and Liabilities Measured Fair Value Nonrecurring Basis measure certain assets, including our cost and equity method investments, fair value nonrecurring basis. These assets are recognized fair value when they are deemed other-than-temporarily impaired. June , , the fair value the common and preferred stock that held that was required measured fair value non-recurring basis was $ million. This fair value was determined using models with significant unobservable inputs. accordance with the provisions Accounting Principles Board Opinion . , The Equity Method Accounting for Investments Common Stock , review the carrying values our investments when events and circumstances warrant, and consider all available evidence evaluating when declines fair value are other than temporary. The fair values our investments are determined based valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections. impairment charge recorded when the cost the investment exceeds its fair value and this condition determined other than temporary. During the fiscal year ended June , , impairment charges $ million were recognized for certain investments measured fair value nonrecurring basis the decline their respective fair values below their cost was determined other than temporary all instances. NOTE INVENTORIES The components inventories were follows: ( millions) June , Raw materials $ $ Work process Finished goods Total $ $ NOTE PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT The components property and equipment were follows: ( millions) June , Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements , , Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment , , Total, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Total, net $ , $ , Property and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed principally the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets. The useful lives for buildings range from five years, leasehold improvements generally range from two years (representing the applicable lease terms plus reasonably assured extensions), computer equipment and software range from two three years, and furniture and equipment range from one five years. Land not depreciated. PAGE Part Item During fiscal years , , and , depreciation expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. The majority depreciation expense all years related computer equipment. NOTE ACQUISITIONS acquired nine entities during fiscal year for total consideration $ million, substantially all which was paid cash. All the entities have been consolidated into our results operations since their respective acquisition dates. The purchase price allocations for these acquisitions are preliminary for months after the acquisition dates and are subject revision more detailed analyses are completed and additional information about the fair values assets and liabilities becomes available. Any change the estimated fair value the net assets the acquired companies within this timeframe will change the amount the purchase price allocable goodwill. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects these acquisitions, individually and the aggregate, were not material our consolidated results operations. NOTE GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill for fiscal years and segment were follows: ( millions) Balance June , Acquisitions Purchase Accounting Adjustments and Other Balance June , Acquisitions Purchase Accounting Adjustments and Other Balance June , Client $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Server and Tools , Online Services Business , ( ) , ( ) , Microsoft Business Division , , ( ) , ( ) , Entertainment and Devices Division ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ , $( ) $ , $ $( ) $ , None the amounts recorded goodwill are expected deductible for tax purposes. The purchase price allocations for all the acquisitions are preliminary for months after the acquisition date and are subject revision more detailed analyses are completed and additional information about fair value the assets and liabilities become available. Any change the fair value the net assets the acquired company within this timeframe will change the amount the purchase price allocable goodwill. Changes goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations are included \x93purchase accounting adjustments and other\x94 the above table. test goodwill for impairment annually the reporting unit level using fair value approach, accordance with the provisions SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . During the second quarter fiscal year , changed the date our annual impairment test from July May . The change was made more closely align the impairment testing date with our long-range planning and forecasting process. believe the change our annual impairment testing date did not delay, accelerate, avoid impairment charge. have determined that this change accounting principle preferable under the circumstances and does not result adjustments our financial statements when applied retrospectively. During fiscal year , the annual impairment test was performed July , and was performed again May , . PAGE Part Item NOTE INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components intangible assets, all which are finite-lived, were follows: ( millions) June , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Contract-based $ , $ ( ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ Technology-based , ( , ) , ( ) , Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ , $( , ) $ , $ , $( , ) $ , During fiscal year and , recorded additions intangible assets $ million and $ billion, respectively. estimate that have significant residual value related our intangible assets. The components intangible assets acquired during fiscal years and were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Amount Weighted Average Life Amount Weighted Average Life Contract-based $ years $ years Technology-based years years Marketing-related years years Customer-related years years Total $ $ , Acquired intangibles generally are amortized straight-line basis over their weighted average lives. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal year , $ million for fiscal year , and $ million for fiscal year . The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets June , : ( millions) Year Ended June , Amount $ and thereafter Total $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE DEBT Short-term Debt September , our Board Directors authorized debt financings $ billion. Pursuant the authorization, established commercial paper program providing for the issuance and sale $ billion short-term commercial paper. June , , $ billion the commercial paper was issued and outstanding with weighted average interest rate, including issuance costs, % and maturities days. The estimated fair value this commercial paper approximates its carrying value. September , also entered into $ billion six-month senior unsecured credit facility, principally support the commercial paper program. November , replaced the six-month credit facility with $ billion -day credit facility. This credit facility expires November , . March , entered into additional credit facility. This $ billion -day credit facility expires March , . June , , were compliance with the only financial covenant both credit agreements, which requires maintain coverage ratio least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization interest expense. amounts were drawn against these credit facilities during the year ended June , . Long-term Debt November , filed shelf registration statement with the . Securities and Exchange Commission that allows issue debt securities from time time pursuant the September authorization for debt financings $ billion. May , issued $ billion debt securities under that registration statement (\x93Notes\x94). Interest the Notes will payable semi-annually June and December each year, commencing December , , holders record the preceding May and November . The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and will rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. The components long-term debt June , were follows: ( millions) % Notes due June , $ , % Notes due June , , % Notes due June , Unamortized debt discount ( ) Total $ , Maturities long-term debt for the next five years are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Amount $ \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 , Thereafter , Total $ , June , , the total carrying value and estimated fair value our long-term debt were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. The estimate fair value based quoted prices for our publicly-traded debt June , . The effective interest yields the Notes due , , and were %, %, and %, respectively, June , . PAGE Part Item NOTE INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Current taxes: . Federal $ , $ , $ , . State and Local International , , Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , . and international components income before income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes were follows: Year Ended June , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Foreign earnings taxed lower rates ( )% ( )% ( )% Internal Revenue Service settlement \x96 % ( )% \x96 % European Commission fine \x96 % % \x96 % Other reconciling items, net % % % Effective rate % % % general, other reconciling items consist interest, . state income taxes, domestic production deductions, and research credits. fiscal years and , there were individually significant other reconciling items. Other reconciling items fiscal year included the impact $ million reduction resulting from various changes tax positions taken prior periods, related primarily favorable developments IRS position and multiple foreign audit assessments. PAGE Part Item The components the deferred income tax assets and liabilities were follows: ( millions) June , Deferred income tax assets: Stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , Other expense items , , Unearned revenue Impaired investments Other revenue items Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: International earnings $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Unrealized gain investments ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Reported : Current deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred income tax assets Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when the taxes are actually paid recovered. have not provided deferred . income taxes foreign withholding taxes temporary differences approximately $ billion resulting from earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the United States. The unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences approximately $ billion. Income taxes paid were $ billion fiscal year , $ billion fiscal year , and $ billion fiscal year . Uncertain Tax Positions June , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. June , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. Interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits are included income tax expense. Such interest totaled $ million fiscal year and $ million fiscal year . June , and , had accrued interest related uncertain tax positions $ million and $ million, respectively, net federal income tax benefits, our balance sheets. PAGE Part Item The aggregate changes the balance unrecognized tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year $ , $ , Decreases related settlements ( ) ( , ) Increases for tax positions related the current year , Increases for tax positions related prior years Decreases for tax positions related prior years ( ) ( ) Reductions due lapsed statute limitations ( ) ( ) Balance, end year $ , $ , During fiscal year , reached settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (\x93IRS\x94) its - examination. result, reduced our unrecognized tax benefits $ billion and recognized tax provision reduction $ billion. result the - settlement and the related impact subsequent years, paid the IRS approximately $ billion during fiscal year . are under audit the IRS for the tax years - . not believe reasonably possible that the total amount unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase decrease within the next months not believe the examination will concluded within the next months. are subject income tax many jurisdictions outside the United States, none which are individually material our financial position, cash flows, results operations. NOTE UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue comprised the following items: Volume licensing programs Represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Undelivered elements Represents the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis and free post-delivery telephone support. This revenue deferral applicable for Windows and prior versions shipped retail packaged products, products licensed OEMs, and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs. The amount recorded unearned based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and one-half years for Windows operating systems. Undelivered elements include $ million deferred revenue related the Windows Upgrade Option program. Other Represents payments for post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future, online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed, Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products, Xbox Live subscriptions, Mediaroom, and other offerings for which have been paid upfront and earn the revenue when provide the service software, otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. PAGE Part Item The components unearned revenue were follows: ( millions) June , Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other , , Total $ , $ , Unearned revenue segment was follows: ( millions) June , Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Microsoft Business Division , , Other segments Total $ , $ , NOTE OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES ( millions) June , Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities $ , $ , Legal contingencies Product warranty Other Total $ , $ , NOTE COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES have committed $ million for constructing new buildings June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million, fiscal years , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating leases place June , are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Amount $ and thereafter $ , PAGE Part Item provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products and certain other matters. evaluate estimated losses for these indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . , Guarantor\x92 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees Indebtedness Others . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered significant costs result these obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related these indemnifications our financial statements. Product Warranty The changes our aggregate product warranty liabilities, which are included other current liabilities and other long term-liabilities our balance sheets, were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year $ $ Accruals for warranties issued Adjustments pre-existing warranties \x96 Settlements warranty claims ( ) ( ) Balance, end year $ $ NOTE CONTINGENCIES Government Competition Law Matters March , the European Commission issued competition law decision that, among other things, ordered license certain Windows server protocol technology our competitors. March , the European Commission issued statement objections claiming that the pricing terms proposed for licensing the technology required the March decision were \x93not reasonable.\x94 Following additional steps took address these concerns, the Commission announced October , that were compliance with the March decision and that further penalty should accrue after that date. February , , the Commission issued fine $ billion ( \x80 million) relating the period prior October , . May , filed application with the European Court First Instance annul the February fine. paid the $ billion ( \x80 million) fine June . January , the Commission opened competition law investigation relating the inclusion various capabilities our Windows operating system software, including Web browsing software. The investigation was precipitated complaint filed with the Commission Opera Software ASA, firm that offers Web browsing software. January , , the European Commission issued statement objections expressing the Commission\x92 preliminary view that the inclusion Internet Explorer Windows since has violated European competition law. According the statement objections, other browsers are foreclosed from competing because Windows includes Internet Explorer. filed our written response the statement objections late April . The European Commission will not make final determination until after assesses our response and considers submissions from others, process that now underway. The statement objections seeks impose remedy that different than the remedy imposed the earlier proceeding concerning Windows Media Player. While computer users and OEMs are already free run any Web browsing software Windows, the Commission considering ordering other changes further promote the prospects competing browser software. This may include ordering creation \x93ballot screen\x94 from which computer users could choose from among variety browsers. The statement objections also seeks impose significant fine based worldwide sales Windows operating systems. January , the Commission opened additional competition law investigation that relates primarily interoperability with respect our Microsoft Office family products. This investigation resulted from complaints filed with the Commission trade association Microsoft\x92 competitors. July , submitted proposal the Commission resolve the investigation concerning Internet Explorer. Under this proposal, European consumers who use Internet Explorer their default browser would shown \x93ballot screen\x94 from which they could, they wished, easily install competing browsers from the Web. also submitted proposal regarding means PAGE Part Item promoting greater interoperability between non-Microsoft products and our Windows and Office families products. made this proposal following extensive discussions with the Commission. statement issued July , , the Commission stated welcomes our proposals. understand the Commission will now consider them, which will likely entail seeking input from range industry participants. are subject Consent Decree and Final Judgment (\x93Final Judgments\x94) that resolved lawsuits brought the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia two separate actions. The Final Judgments imposed various constraints our Windows operating system businesses. Originally, the Final Judgments were scheduled expire November . , voluntarily agreed extend certain elements the Final Judgments November . The . Department Justice and other states advised the Court that they would not seek any extension the Final Judgments which they are party. January , the court issued decision granting the states\x92 motion extend these additional provisions the Final Judgments until November . April , , agreed with the Department Justice and the states, respectively, extend the Final Judgments May , and submitted the . District Court for the District Columbia joint motions for this extension. April , the Court entered order approving the extension. other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state attorneys general have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. Antitrust, Unfair Competition, and Overcharge Class Actions large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits have been filed against various state, federal, and Canadian courts behalf various classes direct and indirect purchasers our operating system and certain other software products. obtained dismissals damages claims indirect purchasers under federal law and states. Courts refused certify classes two additional states. have reached agreements settle all claims that have been made date states and the District Columbia. Under the settlements, generally class members can obtain vouchers that entitle them reimbursed for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value vouchers that may issue varies state. will make available certain schools percentage those vouchers that are not issued claimed (one-half two-thirds depending the state). The total value vouchers ultimately issue will depend the number class members who make claims and are issued vouchers. The maximum value vouchers issued approximately $ billion. The actual costs these settlements will less than that maximum amount, depending the number class members and schools that are issued and redeem vouchers. The settlements all states except Arizona have received final court approval. Cases Canada have not been settled. estimate the total cost resolve all the overcharge class action cases will range between $ billion and $ billion. The actual cost depends factors such the claim rate, the quantity and mix products for which claims are made, the number eligible class members who ultimately use the vouchers, the nature hardware and software that acquired using the vouchers, and the cost administering the claims. June , , have recorded liability related these claims approximately $ million, which reflects our estimated exposure $ billion less payments made date approximately $ billion mostly for vouchers, legal fees, and administrative expenses. Other Antitrust Litigation and Claims November , Novell, Inc. filed complaint . District Court, asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against related Novell\x92 ownership WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June and March . This case was transferred Maryland. June , the trial court granted our motion dismiss four nine claims the complaint. Both parties appealed, and October , the court appeals affirmed the decision the trial court, and remanded the case that court for further proceedings. Fact discovery has closed and summary judgment motions are expected filed the fall. Patent and Intellectual Property Claims filed action . District Court California seeking declaratory judgment that not infringe certain Alcatel-Lucent patents (although this action began before the merger Alcatel and Lucent , for simplicity refer the post-merger entity Alcatel-Lucent). April , jury returned verdict Alcatel-Lucent\x92 favor trial consolidated group one video and three user interface patents. The jury concluded that had infringed two user interface patents and awarded $ million damages. June , the trial judge increased the amount damages $ million include $ million interest. have appealed that award the Federal Circuit. December , entered into settlement agreement resolving all other litigation PAGE Part Item pending between Microsoft and Alcatel-Lucent, leaving approximately $ million remaining dispute. April , the . Patent and Trademark Office, after reexamination the remaining patent dispute, determined that the patent was invalid and Alcatel-Lucent has appealed that ruling. October , Uniloc USA Inc., subsidiary Singapore-based security technology company, filed patent infringement suit . District Court Rhode Island, claiming that product activation technology Windows and certain other Microsoft programs violated Uniloc patent. After obtained favorable summary judgment that did not infringe any the claims this patent, the court appeals vacated the trial court decision and remanded the case for trial. April , the jury returned $ million verdict against , including finding willful infringement. are seeking overturn this verdict via post-trial motions and, necessary, will appeal, based evidence that our product activation technology does not infringe the patent, that the patent invalid, and that the damages were unsupported. With pre-judgment interest, approximately $ million dispute. March , i4i Limited Partnership, based Canada, sued Microsoft . District Court the Eastern District Texas, claiming that certain custom XML technology Word and infringed i4i\x92 patent. May , jury returned verdict against , finding damages $ million and that willfully infringed the patent. Our defense inequitable conduct has not yet been ruled upon, and are also seeking overturn the verdict via post-trial motions and, necessary, via appeal. With pre-judgment interest, approximately $ million dispute. There are over other patent infringement cases pending against Microsoft, which are set for trial fiscal year . Other also are subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against , individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position, our results operations, our cash flows, these matters are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. June , , had accrued aggregate liabilities approximately $ million other current liabilities and approximately $ million other long-term liabilities for all the contingent matters described this note. While intend vigorously defend these matters, there exists the possibility adverse outcomes that estimate could $ billion aggregate beyond recorded amounts. The foregoing amount does not include the January , European Commission statement objections, the outcome and range which not reasonably estimable. Were unfavorable final outcomes occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position, results operations, and cash flows for the period which the effects become reasonably estimable. NOTE STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares Outstanding Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , Share Repurchases September , , announced the completion the two repurchase programs approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. September , , also announced that our Board Directors approved new share repurchase program PAGE Part Item authorizing $ billion share repurchases with expiration date September , . June , , approximately $ billion remained the $ billion approved repurchase amount. All repurchases were made using cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. repurchased the following shares common stock under the above-described repurchase plans: ( millions) Year Ended June , ( ) ( ) ( ) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount First quarter $ , $ , $ , Second quarter , , , Third quarter \x96 \x96 , , Fourth quarter \x96 \x96 , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) the million shares common stock repurchased fiscal year , million shares were repurchased for $ billion under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year . The remaining shares were repurchased under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors September , . ( ) All shares repurchased fiscal year were repurchased under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors July , . ( ) the million shares common stock repurchased fiscal year , million shares were repurchased for $ billion under our tender offer the first quarter fiscal year . The remaining shares were repurchased under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors July , . Dividends fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount ( millions) Payment Date September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , ( ) September , ( ) The dividend declared June , will paid after the filing date this report Form - and was included other current liabilities June , . fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount ( millions) Payment Date September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ ( ) September , ( ) The dividend declared June , was included other current liabilities June , . Other July , , adopted the provisions FIN . , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . , which provides financial statement recognition threshold and PAGE Part Item measurement attribute for tax position taken expected taken tax return. Upon adoption, recognized $ million charge our beginning retained deficit cumulative effect change accounting principle. July , , adopted Emerging Issues Task Force Issue . - (\x93EITF - \x94), Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits Pursuant FASB Statement . . EITF - requires companies accrue the costs compensated absences under sabbatical similar benefit arrangement over the requisite service period. Upon adoption, recognized $ million charge our beginning retained deficit cumulative effect change accounting principle. NOTE OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The activity other comprehensive income and related income tax effects were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Net unrealized gains derivatives: Unrealized gains, net tax effects $ , $ , and $ $ $ $ Reclassification adjustment for gains included net income, net tax effects $( ) , $( ), and $( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains derivatives Net unrealized gains (losses) investments: Unrealized gains (losses), net tax effects $( ) , $( ), and $ ( ) ( ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included net income, net tax effects $ , $( ), and $( ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) investments ( ) ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) $( ) $( ) $ The components accumulated other comprehensive income were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Net unrealized gains derivatives $ $ $ Net unrealized gains investments , Translation adjustments and other Accumulated other comprehensive income $ $ , $ , NOTE EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS Stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Total stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefits related stock-based compensation $ $ $ PAGE Part Item Employee Stock Purchase Plan have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan recognized accordance with SFAS . ( ). Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the last day each three-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. Employees purchased the following shares: (Shares millions) Year Ended June , Shares purchased Average price per share $ $ $ June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. Savings Plan have savings plan the United States that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, and number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively, and were expensed contributed. Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. Stock Plans have stock plans for directors and for officers, employees, consultants, and advisors. June , , aggregate million shares were authorized for future grant under our stock plans, which cover stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. Awards that expire are canceled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. issue new shares satisfy stock option exercises. Stock Awards Stock awards (\x93SAs\x94) are grants that entitle the holder shares Microsoft common stock the award vests. Our SAs generally vest over five-year period. Shared Performance Stock Awards Shared performance stock awards (\x93SPSAs\x94) are form which the number shares ultimately received depends our business performance against specified performance targets. The Company granted SPSAs for fiscal years , , and with performance periods July , through June , , July , through June , , and July , through June , , respectively. the end each performance period, the number shares stock subject the award determined multiplying the target award percentage ranging from % %. The percentage based performance metrics for the performance period, determined the Compensation Committee the Board Directors its sole discretion. additional number shares, approximately % the total target SPSAs, are available additional awards participants based individual performance. One-quarter the shares stock subject each award vest following the end the performance period, and additional one-quarter the shares vest each the following three anniversaries the grant date. Following the end the fiscal year and performance periods, the Compensation Committee the Board Directors determined that the number shares SPSAs issued were million and million respectively, based the actual performance against metrics established for the performance period. The number shares SPSAs issued for the fiscal year performance period will determined the first quarter fiscal year . PAGE Part Item Executive Officer Incentive Plan fiscal year , the Compensation Committee approved new Executive Officer Incentive Plan (\x93EOIP\x94) for executive officers the Company. The EOIP replaced the annual cash bonus opportunity and equity award plans for executive officers. Under the EOIP, the Compensation Committee makes awards performance-based compensation for specified performance periods. For fiscal year , executive officers were eligible receive annual awards comprised cash and SAs from incentive pool funded based the achievement operating income targets. Following approval the awards for fiscal year , % the award will paid the executive officers cash, and the remaining % will converted into for shares Microsoft common stock. The portion the award will vest one-quarter immediately after the award approved following fiscal year , and one-quarter August each the following three years. The Company will grant awards the executive officers September based the performance period July , through June , , from incentive pool equal % the Company\x92 fiscal year operating income. Each executive officer will receive fixed percentage the pool ranging between and % target based assessment the executive officer\x92 performance during fiscal year . The number shares subject the portion the award will determined dividing the value the award the closing price Microsoft common stock August , . Activity for All Stock Plans measure the fair value SAs and SPSAs based upon the market price the underlying common stock the date grant, reduced the present value estimated future dividends. SAs and SPSAs EOIP are amortized over their applicable vesting period (generally four five years) using the straight-line method. The fair value each award grant estimated the date grant using the following assumptions: Year Ended June , Dividends per share (quarterly amounts) $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Interest rates range % - % % - % % - % During fiscal year , the following activity occurred under our existing plans: Shares ( millions) Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Stock awards: Nonvested balance, beginning year $ Granted $ Vested ( ) $ Forfeited ( ) $ Nonvested balance, end year $ Shared performance stock awards: Nonvested balance, beginning year $ Granted $ Vested ( ) $ Forfeited \x96 \x96 Nonvested balance, end year $ June , , there was $ billion and $ million total unrecognized compensation costs related SAs and SPSAs, respectively. These costs are expected recognized over weighted average period years and years, respectively. PAGE Part Item During fiscal year and , the following activity occurred under our plans: ( millions, except fair values) Stock awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Shared performance stock awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Stock Options fiscal year , began granting employees SAs rather than stock options part our equity compensation plans. Since then, stock options issued employees have been issued primarily conjunction with business acquisitions. Nonqualified stock options were granted our directors under our non-employee director stock plan until when began granting directors SAs. Nonqualified and incentive stock options were granted certain officers and employees under our employee stock plans. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. Options granted after vest over four and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. granted one million, million, and two million stock options, respectively, conjunction with business acquisitions during fiscal years , , and . Employee stock options outstanding were follows: Shares ( millions) Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term (Years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( millions) Balance, July , $ Granted $ Exercised ( ) $ Canceled ( ) $ Forfeited ( ) $ Balance, June , $ $ Exercisable, June , $ $ Options outstanding June , include approximately eight million options that were granted conjunction with business acquisitions. While these options are included the options outstanding balance, they are excluded from the weighted average exercise price. These options have exercise price range $ $ and weighted average exercise price $ . During fiscal years , , and , the following activity occurred under our plans: ( millions) Total intrinsic value stock options exercised $ $ , $ Total fair value stock awards vested $ , $ $ Total fair value shared performance stock awards vested $ $ $ Cash received and income tax benefits from stock option exercises were $ million and $ million, respectively, for fiscal year . PAGE Part Item NOTE EMPLOYEE SEVERANCE January , announced and implemented resource management program reduce discretionary operating expenses, employee headcount, and capital expenditures. part this program, announced the elimination , positions research and development, marketing, sales, finance, legal, human resources, and information technology June , . During the fiscal year ended June , , recorded charges $ million for the expected reduction employee headcount which was recorded corporate-level activity. During the year had net reduction approximately , positions under the resource management program. The changes our employee severance liabilities were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ \x96 Employee severance charges Cash payments ( ) Balance, end period $ NOTE SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA Segment revenue and operating income (loss) was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Revenue: Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Business , , , Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division , , , Unallocated and other Consolidated $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Year Ended June , Operating Income (Loss): Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Business ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division ( , ) Reconciling amounts ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. This standard requires segmentation based our internal organization and reporting revenue and operating income (loss) based upon internal accounting methods. Our financial reporting systems present various data for management operate the business, including internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. The segments are designed allocate resources internally and provide framework determine management responsibility. Amounts for prior periods have been recast conform the current management view. Operating segments are defined components enterprise about which separate financial information available that evaluated regularly the chief operating decision maker, decision making group, deciding how allocate resources and assessing performance. Our chief operating decision maker our Chief Executive Officer. Our five segments are Client; Server and Tools; Online Services Business; Microsoft Business Division; and Entertainment and Devices Division. The types products and services provided each segment are summarized below: Client \x96 Windows Vista, including Home Basic, Home Premium, Ultimate, Business, Enterprise and Starter Edition; Windows , including Professional, Home, Media Center, and Tablet Edition; and other standard Windows operating systems. Server and Tools \x96 Windows Server operating system; Microsoft SQL Server; Visual Studio; Silverlight; System Center products; Forefront security products; Biz Talk Server; Microsoft Consulting Services; Premier product support services; and other products and services. Online Services Business \x96 Bing; Microsoft adCenter adExpert; Microsoft Media Network (MMN); MSN portals, channels, and mobile services; Windows Live suite applications and mobile services; Atlas online tools for advertisers and publishers; MSN Premium Web Services (consisting MSN Internet Software Subscription, MSN Hotmail Plus, and MSN Software Services); and Razorfish media agency services. Microsoft Business Division \x96 Microsoft Office; Microsoft Office Project; Microsoft Office Visio; Microsoft Office SharePoint Server; FAST ESP; Microsoft Exchange Server; Microsoft Exchange Hosted Services; Microsoft Office Live Meeting; Microsoft Office Communications Server; Microsoft Office Communicator; Microsoft Tellme Service; Microsoft Dynamics ERP products including , NAV, , , Retail Management System, and Point Sale; Microsoft Dynamics CRM; and Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online. Entertainment and Devices Division \x96 Xbox console and games; Xbox Live; Zune; Mediaroom; numerous consumer software and hardware products (such mice and keyboards); Windows Mobile software and services platform; Windows Embedded device operating system; Windows Automotive; and the Microsoft Surface computing platform. Because our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments, and therefore these segments are not designed measure operating income loss directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and incent shared efforts. Management will continually evaluate the alignment product development organizations, sales organizations, and inter-segment commissions for segment reporting purposes, which may result changes segment allocations future periods. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Reconciling amounts include adjustments conform with . GAAP and corporate-level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, and accelerated amortization for depreciation, stock awards, and performance-based stock awards. addition, certain revenue and expenses are excluded from segments included corporate-level activity including certain legal settlements and accruals for legal contingencies. PAGE Part Item Significant reconciling items were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Summary reconciling amounts: Corporate-level activity ( ) $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) Stock-based compensation expense Revenue reconciling amounts Other ( ) Total $( , ) $( , ) $( , ) ( ) Corporate-level activity excludes stock-based compensation expense and revenue reconciling amounts presented separately those line items. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year , , revenue. Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which our customers are located, was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes shipments customers the United States and licensing certain OEMs and multinational organizations. Long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments and deferred taxes, classified the location the controlling statutory company, were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , United States $ , $ , Other countries , , Total $ , $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE QUARTERLY INFORMATION (Unaudited) ( millions, except per share amounts) Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Total Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , ( ) , ( ) , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , ( ) $ , ( ) $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , ( ) , Net income , , , ( ) , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Reflects $ million revenue deferred future periods relating the Windows Upgrade Option program. ( ) Includes employee severance $ million and $ million (pre-tax) the third and fourth quarters the year ended June , , respectively. ( ) Includes charges $ million (pre-tax) related various legal matters. ( ) Includes charge $ billion ( \x80 million) related the fine imposed the European Commission February . ( ) Reflects $ billion revenue deferred the third quarter fiscal year for the Express Upgrade Windows Vista and Microsoft Office Technology guarantee programs and pre-shipments Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system. ( ) Includes $ billion revenue discussed above. ( ) Includes charges $ million (pre-tax) related various legal matters. ( ) Includes $ billion (pre-tax) charge related the Xbox warranty policy, inventory write-downs, and product returns. NOTE SUBSEQUENT EVENT July , , Microsoft and Yahoo! announced -year agreement under which Microsoft will provide the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! Web sites. part the transaction, Microsoft will compensate Yahoo! through revenue sharing agreement traffic generated the Yahoo! network owned and operated sites, and guarantee search revenue certain countries. Additionally, Yahoo! will become the exclusive worldwide relationship sales force for both companies\x92 premium search advertisers. Self-serve advertising for both companies will fulfilled Microsoft\x92 adCenter platform, and prices for all search ads will continue set adCenter\x92 automated auction process. Microsoft will also acquire exclusive -year license Yahoo!\x92 core search technology and will have the ability integrate Yahoo! search technology into its existing Web search platform. The agreement does not cover either company\x92 Web properties and products, email, instant messaging, display advertising, any other aspect the companies\x92 businesses, and the companies will continue compete those areas. The transaction will subject regulatory review. The agreement entered into July anticipates that the parties will enter into more detailed definitive agreements prior closing the transaction. The companies are hopeful that closing can occur early calendar year . PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. discussed Note the financial statements, July , the Company adopted the provisions Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation . , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . , and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue . - , Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits Pursuant FASB Statement . . have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PAGE Part Item , ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures required Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. REPORT MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control over financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability our financial reporting for external purposes accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary for preparation our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures company assets are made accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition company assets that could have material effect our financial statements would prevented detected timely basis. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting not intended provide absolute assurance that misstatement our financial statements would prevented detected. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Based this evaluation, management concluded that the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was effective June , . There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited our internal control over financial reporting June , ; their report included Item . PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the internal control over financial reporting Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. The Company\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting, included the accompanying Report Management Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed , under the supervision , the company\x92 principal executive and principal financial officers, persons performing similar functions, and effected the company\x92 board directors, management, and other personnel provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because the inherent limitations internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility collusion improper management override controls, material misstatements due error fraud may not prevented detected timely basis. Also, projections any evaluation the effectiveness the internal control over financial reporting future periods are subject the risk that the controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, the Company maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control\x96Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and for the year ended June , , the Company and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion those financial statements. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PAGE Part , III Item , , , , , ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE list our executive officers and biographical information appears Part , Item this report. Information about our directors may found under the caption \x93Nominees\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Information about our Audit Committee may found under the caption \x93Board Committees\x94 the Proxy Statement. That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our Website www microsoft com about companyinformation corporategovernance financecode mspx. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature the amendment waiver that Web site report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Director Compensation,\x94 \x93Named Executive Officer Compensation,\x94 \x93Compensation Committee Report,\x94 and \x93Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 and \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information set forth the Proxy Statement under the captions \x93Director Independence\x94 and \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the headings \x93Fees Billed Deloitte & Touche\x94 and \x93Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services Independent Auditor\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PAGE Part Item PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Annual Report Form - , indexed below. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they either are not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. Index Financial Statements Page ( ) Exhibit Listing Filed Herewith Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation - Bylaws Microsoft Corporation - Form Indenture between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee (\x93Base Indenture\x94) -ASR Form First Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Base Indenture - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan - PAGE Part Item Filed Herewith Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the January , June , performance period - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the July , June , performance period - * Form Stock Option Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) - Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the fiscal year performance period - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the fiscal year performance period - PAGE Part Item Filed Herewith Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date * Executive Officer Incentive Plan - * Form Executive Officer Incentive Plan Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Annual Performance Bonus Plan for Executive Officers - Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges Subsidiaries Registrant Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement PAGE ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}