{'item 1. ': 'Business This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based expectations, estimates, and projections the date this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See Item Part — “Risk Factors.” Amazon com, Inc. was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated the state Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. completed our initial public offering May and our common stock listed the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.” used herein, “Amazon com,” “ ,” “our,” and similar terms include Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. General seek Earth’ most customer-centric company. are guided four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment operational excellence, and long-term thinking. each our segments, serve our primary customer sets, consisting consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. addition, provide services, such advertising sellers, vendors, publishers, and authors, through programs such sponsored ads, display, and video advertising. have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and Amazon Web Services (“AWS”). These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. Information our net sales contained Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Segment Information.” The financial results Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included our consolidated financial statements from the date acquisition August , . Consumers serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus selection, price, and convenience. design our stores enable hundreds millions unique products sold and third parties across dozens product categories. Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, devices, streaming, and physically visiting our stores. also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle, Fire tablet, Fire , Echo, Ring, and other devices, and develop and produce media content. seek offer our customers low prices, fast and free delivery, easy- -use functionality, and timely customer service. addition, offer Amazon Prime, membership program that includes unlimited free shipping over million items, access unlimited streaming tens thousands movies and episodes, including Amazon Original content, and other benefits. fulfill customer orders number ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks that operate; -sourced and outsourced arrangements certain countries; digital delivery; and through our physical stores. operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented -sourced arrangements. See Item Part , “Properties.” Sellers offer programs that enable sellers grow their businesses, sell their products our stores, and fulfill orders through . are not the seller record these transactions. earn fixed fees, percentage sales, per-unit activity fees, interest, some combination thereof, for our seller programs. Developers and Enterprises serve developers and enterprises all sizes, including start-ups, government agencies, and academic institutions, through our AWS segment, which offers broad set global compute, storage, database, and other service offerings. Content Creators serve authors and independent publishers with Kindle Direct Publishing, online service that lets independent authors and publishers choose royalty option and make their books available the Kindle Store, along with Amazon’ own publishing arm, Amazon Publishing. also offer programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, skill and app developers, and others publish and sell content. Competition Our businesses encompass large variety product types, service offerings, and delivery channels. The worldwide marketplace which compete evolving rapidly and intensely competitive, and face broad array competitors from many different industry sectors around the world. Our current and potential competitors include: ( ) physical, -commerce, and omnichannel retailers, publishers, vendors, distributors, manufacturers, and producers the products offer and sell consumers and businesses; ( ) publishers, producers, and distributors physical, digital, and interactive media all types and all distribution channels; ( ) web search engines, comparison shopping websites, social networks, web portals, and other online and app-based means discovering, using, acquiring goods and services, either directly collaboration with other retailers; ( ) companies that provide -commerce services, including website development and hosting, omnichannel sales, inventory, and supply chain management, advertising, fulfillment, customer service, and payment processing; ( ) companies that provide fulfillment and logistics services for themselves for third parties, whether online offline; ( ) companies that provide information technology services products, including -premises cloud-based infrastructure and other services; ( ) companies that design, manufacture, market, sell consumer electronics, telecommunication, and electronic devices; and ( ) companies that sell grocery products online and physical stores. believe that the principal competitive factors our retail businesses include selection, price, and convenience, including fast and reliable fulfillment. Additional competitive factors for our seller and enterprise services include the quality, speed, and reliability our services and tools, well customers’ ability and willingness change business practices. Some our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, greater brand recognition, and greater control over inputs critical our various businesses. They may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing, pursue restrictive distribution agreements that restrict our access supply, direct consumers their own offerings instead ours, lock- potential customers with restrictive terms, and devote more resources technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability new, smaller, lesser-known businesses compete against . Each our businesses also subject rapid change and the development new business models and the entry new and well-funded competitors. Other companies also may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others protect our proprietary rights. have registered, applied for the registration , number . and international domain names, trademarks, service marks, and copyrights. Additionally, have filed . and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our proprietary rights third parties. Seasonality Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December . recognized % , % , and % our annual revenue during the fourth quarter , , and . Fourth quarter results include revenue attributable Whole Foods Market, which acquired August , . Employees employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees December , . However, employment levels fluctuate due seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel supplement our workforce. have works councils, statutory employee representation obligations, and union agreements certain countries outside the United States and certain our studio operations within the United States. consider our employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel has historically been intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. Available Information Our investor relations website amazon com and encourage investors use way easily finding information about . promptly make available this website, free charge, the reports that file furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), corporate governance information (including our Code Business Conduct and Ethics), and select press releases. Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors January , : Information About Our Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Jeffrey . Blackburn Senior Vice President, Business Development Andrew . Jassy CEO Amazon Web Services Brian . Olsavsky Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Shelley . Reynolds Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer Jeffrey . Wilke CEO Worldwide Consumer David . Zapolsky Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Jeffrey . Bezos. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President the Company from founding until June and again from October the present. Jeffrey . Blackburn. . Blackburn has served Senior Vice President, Business Development, since April . Andrew . Jassy. . Jassy has served CEO Amazon Web Services since April , and Senior Vice President, Amazon Web Services, from April until April . Brian . Olsavsky. . Olsavsky has served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June , Vice President, Finance for the Global Consumer Business from December June , and numerous financial leadership roles across Amazon with global responsibility since April . Shelley . Reynolds. . Reynolds has served Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer since April . Jeffrey . Wilke. . Wilke has served CEO Worldwide Consumer since April , Senior Vice President, Consumer Business, from February until April , and Senior Vice President, North America Retail, from January until February . David . Zapolsky. . Zapolsky has served Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since May , Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from September May , and Vice President and Associate General Counsel for Litigation and Regulatory matters from April until September . Board Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Rosalind . Brewer Group President, Americas and Chief Operating Officer, Starbucks Corporation Jamie . Gorelick Partner, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP Daniel . Huttenlocher Dean, MIT Schwarzman College Computing Judith . McGrath Senior Advisor, Astronauts Wanted * experience necessary Indra . Nooyi Former Chief Executive Officer, PepsiCo, Inc. Jonathan . Rubinstein Former -CEO, Bridgewater Associates, Thomas . Ryder Retired, Former Chairman, Reader’ Digest Association, Inc. Patricia . Stonesifer Former President and Chief Executive Officer, Martha’ Table Wendell . Weeks Chief Executive Officer, Corning Incorporated ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following discussion significant factors, events, and uncertainties that make investment our securities risky. The events and consequences discussed these risk factors could, circumstances may may not able accurately predict, recognize, control, have material adverse effect our business, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results (including components our financial results), cash flows, liquidity, and stock price. These risk factors not identify all risks that face; our operations could also affected factors, events, uncertainties that are not presently known that currently not consider present significant risks our operations. addition, the global economic climate amplifies many these risks. Face Intense Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and have many competitors across geographies, including cross-border competition, and different industries, including physical, -commerce, and omnichannel retail, -commerce services, web and infrastructure computing services, electronic devices, digital content, advertising, grocery, and transportation and logistics services. Some our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition, particularly with our newly-launched products and services and our newer geographic regions. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Competition continues intensify, including with the development new business models and the entry new and well-funded competitors, and our competitors enter into business combinations alliances and established companies other market segments expand become competitive with our business. addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices continue increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability new, smaller, lesser known businesses compete against . result competition, our product and service offerings may not successful, may fail gain may lose business, and may required increase our spending lower prices, any which could materially reduce our sales and profits. Our Expansion Places Significant Strain our Management, Operational, Financial, and Other Resources are continuing rapidly and significantly expand our global operations, including increasing our product and service offerings and scaling our infrastructure support our retail and services businesses. The complexity the current scale our business can place significant strain our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions, and our expansion increases these factors. Failure manage growth effectively could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies, and Geographic Regions Subjects Additional Risks may have limited experience our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our product service offerings. These offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject claims customers these offerings experience service disruptions failures other quality issues. addition, profitability, any, our newer activities may not meet our expectations, and may not successful enough these newer activities recoup our investments them. Failure realize the benefits amounts invest new technologies, products, services could result the value those investments being written down written off. Experience Significant Fluctuations Our Operating Results and Growth Rate are not always able accurately forecast our growth rate. base our expense levels and investment plans sales estimates. significant portion our expenses and investments fixed, and are not always able adjust our spending quickly enough our sales are less than expected. Our revenue growth may not sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends the continued growth demand for the products and services offered our sellers, and our business affected general economic and business conditions worldwide. softening demand, whether caused changes customer preferences weakening the . global economies, may result decreased revenue growth. Our sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due factors described elsewhere this section and the following: • our ability retain and increase sales existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers’ demands; • our ability retain and expand our network sellers; • our ability offer products favorable terms, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; • the introduction competitive stores, websites, products, services, price decreases, improvements; • changes usage adoption rates the Internet, -commerce, electronic devices, and web services, including outside the .; • timing, effectiveness, and costs expansion and upgrades our systems and infrastructure; • the success our geographic, service, and product line expansions; • the extent which finance, and the terms any such financing for, our current operations and future growth; • the outcomes legal proceedings and claims, which may include significant monetary damages injunctive relief and could have material adverse impact our operating results; • variations the mix products and services sell; • variations our level merchandise and vendor returns; • the extent which offer fast and free delivery, continue reduce prices worldwide, and provide additional benefits our customers; • factors affecting our reputation brand image; • the extent which invest technology and content, fulfillment, and other expense categories; • increases the prices fuel and gasoline, well increases the prices other energy products and commodities like paper and packing supplies and hardware products; • the extent which operators the networks between our customers and our stores successfully charge fees grant our customers unimpaired and unconstrained access our online services; • our ability collect amounts owed when they become due; • the extent which use our services affected spyware, viruses, phishing and other spam emails, denial service attacks, data theft, computer intrusions, outages, and similar events; and • disruptions from natural man-made disasters, extreme weather, geopolitical events and security issues (including terrorist attacks and armed hostilities), labor trade disputes, and similar events. Our International Operations Expose Number Risks Our international activities are significant our revenues and profits, and plan further expand internationally. certain international market segments, have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages otherwise succeed. costly establish, develop, and maintain international operations and stores, and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not become profitable sustained basis. addition risks described elsewhere this section, our international sales and operations are subject number risks, including: • local economic and political conditions; • government regulation (such regulation our product and service offerings and competition); restrictive governmental actions (such trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs); nationalization; and restrictions foreign ownership; • restrictions sales distribution certain products services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services, and content, including uncertainty result less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution media products and enforcement intellectual property rights; • business licensing certification requirements, such for imports, exports, web services, and electronic devices; • limitations the repatriation and investment funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; • limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure; • shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact cash flow; • laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, privacy, network security, encryption, payments, advertising, and restrictions pricing discounts; • lower levels use the Internet; • lower levels consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared the .; • lower levels credit card usage and increased payment risk; • difficulty staffing, developing, and managing foreign operations result distance, language, and cultural differences; • different employee employer relationships and the existence works councils and labor unions; • compliance with the . Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable . and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments government officials and other third parties; • laws and policies the . and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and • geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. international physical, -commerce, and omnichannel retail and other services grow, competition will intensify, including through adoption evolving business models. Local companies may have substantial competitive advantage because their greater understanding , and focus , the local customer, well their more established local brand names. The inability hire, train, retain, and manage sufficient required personnel may limit our international growth. The People’ Republic China (“PRC”) and India regulate Amazon’ and its affiliates’ businesses and operations country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict ( ) foreign investment and operation the Internet, infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, ( ) Internet content, and (iii) the sale media and other products and services. For example, order meet local ownership, regulatory licensing, and cybersecurity requirements, provide certain technology services China through contractual relationships with third parties that hold PRC licenses provide services. India, the government restricts the ownership control Indian companies foreign entities involved online multi-brand retail trading activities. For www amazon , provide certain marketing tools and logistics services third-party sellers enable them sell online and deliver customers, and hold indirect minority interests entities that are third-party sellers the www amazon marketplace. Although believe these structures and activities comply with existing laws, they involve unique risks, and the PRC and India may from time time consider and implement additional changes their regulatory, licensing, other requirements that could impact these structures and activities. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation PRC and Indian laws and regulations, and possible that these governments will ultimately take view contrary ours. addition, our Chinese and Indian businesses and operations may unable continue operate our affiliates are unable access sufficient funding , China, enforce contractual relationships our affiliates have place. Violation any existing future PRC, Indian, other laws regulations changes the interpretations those laws and regulations could result our businesses those countries being subject fines and other financial penalties, having licenses revoked, being forced restructure our operations shut down entirely. Face Risks Related Successfully Optimizing and Operating Our Fulfillment Network and Data Centers Failures adequately predict customer demand otherwise optimize and operate our fulfillment network and data centers successfully from time time result excess insufficient fulfillment data center capacity, increased costs, and impairment charges, any which could materially harm our business. continue add fulfillment and data center capability add new businesses with different requirements, our fulfillment and data center networks become increasingly complex and operating them becomes more challenging. There can assurance that will able operate our networks effectively. addition, failure optimize inventory our fulfillment network increases our net shipping cost requiring long-zone partial shipments. and our -sourcers may unable adequately staff our fulfillment network and customer service centers. Under some our commercial agreements, maintain the inventory other companies, thereby increasing the complexity tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment network. Our failure properly handle such inventory the inability the other businesses whose behalf perform inventory fulfillment services accurately forecast product demand may result being unable secure sufficient storage space optimize our fulfillment network cause other unexpected costs and other harm our business and reputation. rely limited number shipping companies deliver inventory and completed orders our customers. The inability negotiate acceptable terms with these companies performance problems other difficulties experienced these companies our own transportation systems could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. addition, our ability receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders customers also may negatively affected natural man-made disasters, extreme weather, geopolitical events and security issues, labor trade disputes, and similar events. The Seasonality Our Retail Business Places Increased Strain Our Operations expect disproportionate amount our retail sales occur during our fourth quarter. Our failure stock restock popular products sufficient amounts such that fail meet customer demand could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. When overstock products, may required take significant inventory markdowns write-offs and incur commitment costs, which could materially reduce profitability. regularly experience increases our net shipping cost due complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. too many customers access our websites within short period time due increased demand, may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods offer sell and the attractiveness our products and services. addition, may unable adequately staff our fulfillment network and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service -sourcers may unable meet the seasonal demand. Risks described elsewhere this Item relating fulfillment network optimization and inventory are magnified during periods high demand. generally have payment terms with our retail vendors that extend beyond the amount time necessary collect proceeds from our consumer customers. result holiday sales, December each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than result cash flows provided used investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results corresponding increase accounts payable December . Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months the year, resulting corresponding decline our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. Our Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships Expose Risks provide physical, -commerce, and omnichannel retail and other services businesses through commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and business relationships. Under these agreements, provide web services, technology, fulfillment, computing, digital storage, and other services, well enable sellers offer products services through our stores. These arrangements are complex and require substantial infrastructure capacity, personnel, and other resource commitments, which may limit the amount business can service. may not able implement, maintain, and develop the components these commercial relationships, which may include web services, fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, hardware, content, and third-party software, and engaging third parties perform services. The amount compensation receive under certain our commercial agreements partially dependent the volume the other company’ sales. Therefore, when the other company’ offerings are not successful, the compensation receive may lower than expected the agreement may terminated. Moreover, may not able enter into additional alternative commercial relationships and strategic alliances favorable terms. also may subject claims from businesses which provide these services are unsuccessful implementing, maintaining, developing these services. our agreements terminate, may unable renew replace these agreements comparable terms, all. may the future enter into amendments less favorable terms encounter parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations , which could adversely affect our operating results. Our present and future -commerce services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such : • disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; • impairment other relationships; • variability revenue and income from entering into, amending, terminating such agreements relationships; and • difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. Our Business Suffers When Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments have acquired and invested number companies, and may the future acquire invest enter into joint ventures with additional companies. These transactions create risks such : • disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; • problems retaining key personnel; • additional operating losses and expenses the businesses acquired which invested; • the potential impairment tangible and intangible assets and goodwill, including result acquisitions; • the potential impairment customer and other relationships the company acquired which invested our own customers result any integration operations; • the difficulty completing such transactions and achieving anticipated benefits within expected timeframes, all; • the difficulty incorporating acquired operations, technology, and rights into our offerings, and unanticipated expenses related such integration; • the difficulty integrating new company’ accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource, and other administrative systems permit effective management, and the lack control such integration delayed not successfully implemented; • losses may incur result declines the value investment result incorporating investee’ financial performance into our financial results; • for investments which investee’ financial performance incorporated into our financial results, either full part, the dependence the investee’ accounting, financial reporting, and similar systems, controls, and processes; • the difficulty implementing companies acquire the controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for larger public company; • the risks associated with businesses acquire invest , which may differ from more significant than the risks our other businesses face; • potential unknown liabilities associated with company acquire which invest; and • for foreign transactions, additional risks related the integration operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. result future acquisitions mergers, might need issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related intangible assets, any which could reduce our profitability and harm our business only available unfavorable terms, all. addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions and strategic investments could change rapidly. could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments other-than-temporary declines fair value which could adversely impact our financial results. Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our international stores and product and service offerings are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Due these fluctuations, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. have expanded our international operations, our exposure exchange rate fluctuations has increased. also hold cash equivalents and marketable securities foreign currencies including British Pounds, Euros, and Japanese Yen. When the . Dollar strengthens compared these currencies, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, when translated, may materially less than expected and vice versa. The Loss Key Senior Management Personnel the Failure Hire and Retain Highly Skilled and Other Key Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business depend our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, CEO, and Chairman. not have “key person” life insurance policies. also rely other highly skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel the technology industry has historically been intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. The loss any our executive officers other key employees the inability hire, train, retain, and manage qualified personnel, could harm our business. Could Harmed Data Loss Other Security Breaches Because collect, process, store, and transmit large amounts data, including confidential, sensitive, proprietary, and business and personal information, failure prevent mitigate data loss, theft, misuse, other security breaches vulnerabilities affecting our our vendors’ customers’ technology, products, and systems, could expose our customers risk loss, disclosure, misuse such information, adversely affect our operating results, result litigation, regulatory action (including under privacy data protection laws), and potential liability for , deter customers sellers from using our stores and services, and otherwise harm our business and reputation. use third-party technology and systems for variety reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery customers, back-office support, and other functions. Some our systems have experienced past security breaches, and, although they did not have material adverse effect our operating results, there can assurance similar result the future. Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect customer information and prevent such incidents, including systems and processes designed reduce the impact security breach third-party vendor customer, such measures cannot provide absolute security and may fail operate intended circumvented. Face Risks Related System Interruption and Lack Redundancy experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites and services unavailable slow respond and prevent from efficiently accepting fulfilling orders providing services third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness our products and services. Steps take add software and hardware, upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and improve the stability and efficiency our systems may not sufficient avoid system interruptions delays that could adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and communications systems and operations the past have been, the future could , damaged interrupted due events such natural man-made disasters, extreme weather, geopolitical events and security issues (including terrorist attacks and armed hostilities), computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, and similar events disruptions. Any these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss critical data, and could prevent from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product and service offerings less attractive and subject liability. Our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not sufficient. addition, our insurance may not provide sufficient coverage compensate for related losses. Any these events could damage our reputation and expensive remedy. Face Significant Inventory Risk addition risks described elsewhere this Item relating fulfillment network and inventory optimization and third parties, are exposed significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes consumer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes consumer tastes with respect our products, spoilage, and other factors. endeavor accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking understocking products manufacture and sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory components are ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling manufacturing new product, may difficult establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition certain types inventory components requires significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels certain products, such consumer electronics, and times are unable sell products sufficient quantities meet demand during the relevant selling seasons. Any one the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. Face Risks Related Adequately Protecting Our Intellectual Property Rights and Being Accused Infringing Intellectual Property Rights Third Parties regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, and others protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection not available every country which our products and services are made available. also may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon, diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. are not always able discover determine the extent any unauthorized use our proprietary rights. Actions taken third parties that license our proprietary rights may materially diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. The protection our intellectual property requires the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps take protect our intellectual property not always adequately protect our rights prevent third parties from infringing misappropriating our proprietary rights. also cannot certain that others will not independently develop otherwise acquire equivalent superior technology other intellectual property rights. have been subject , and expect continue subject , claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement the intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, have the past, and may the future, result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against , significant payments for damages, including satisfy indemnification obligations obtain licenses from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights. Such licenses may not available terms acceptable all. These risks have been amplified the increase third parties whose sole primary business assert such claims. Our digital content offerings depend part effective digital rights management technology control access digital content. Breach malfunctioning the digital rights management technology that use could subject claims, and content providers may unwilling include their content our service. Have Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Highly Volatile have rapidly evolving business model. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly response , among other risks, the risks described elsewhere this Item , well : • changes interest rates; • conditions trends the Internet and the industry segments operate ; • quarterly variations operating results; • fluctuations the stock market general and market prices for Internet-related companies particular; • changes financial estimates decisions increase decrease future spending investment levels; • changes financial estimates and recommendations securities analysts; • changes our capital structure, including issuance additional debt equity the public; • changes the valuation methodology , performance , other -commerce technology companies; and • transactions our common stock major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. Volatility our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities and force increase our cash compensation employees grant larger stock awards than have historically, which could hurt our operating results reduce the percentage ownership our existing stockholders, both. Government Regulation Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business are subject general business regulations and laws, well regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, physical, -commerce, and omnichannel retail, digital content, web services, electronic devices, artificial intelligence technologies and services, and other products and services that offer sell. These regulations and laws cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, transportation, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste, energy consumption, environmental regulation, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, consumer protection, employment, trade and protectionist measures, web services, the provision online payment services, registration, licensing, and information reporting requirements, unencumbered Internet access our services access our facilities, the design and operation websites, health, safety, and sanitation standards, the characteristics, legality, and quality products and services, product labeling, the commercial operation unmanned aircraft systems, and other matters. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, libel, data protection, and personal privacy apply aspects our operations such the Internet, -commerce, digital content, web services, electronic devices, and artificial intelligence technologies and services. large number jurisdictions regulate our operations, and the extent, nature, and scope such regulations evolving and expanding the scope our businesses expand. are regularly subject formal and informal reviews and investigations governments and regulatory authorities under existing laws, regulations, interpretations pursuing new and novel approaches regulate our operations. For example, the European Commission announced that has opened investigation assess whether aspects our operations with marketplace sellers violate competition rules. Unfavorable regulations, laws, decisions, interpretations government regulatory authorities applying those laws and regulations, inquiries, investigations, enforcement actions threatened initiated them, could cause incur substantial costs, expose unanticipated civil and criminal liability penalties (including substantial monetary fines), diminish the demand for, availability , our products and services, increase our cost doing business, require change our business practices manner materially adverse our business, damage our reputation, impede our growth, otherwise have material effect our operations. Claims, Litigation, Government Investigations, and Other Proceedings May Adversely Affect Our Business and Results Operations innovative company offering wide range consumer and business products and services around the world, are regularly subject actual and threatened claims, litigation, reviews, investigations, and other proceedings, including proceedings governments and regulatory authorities, involving wide range issues, including patent and other intellectual property matters, taxes, labor and employment, competition and antitrust, privacy and data protection, consumer protection, commercial disputes, goods and services offered and third parties, and other matters. The number and scale these proceedings have increased over time our businesses have expanded scope and geographic reach and our products, services, and operations have become more complex and available , and used , more people. Any these types proceedings can have adverse effect because legal costs, disruption our operations, diversion management resources, negative publicity, and other factors. The outcomes these matters are inherently unpredictable and subject significant uncertainties. Determining legal reserves possible losses from such matters involves judgment and may not reflect the full range uncertainties and unpredictable outcomes. Until the final resolution such matters, may exposed losses excess the amount recorded, and such amounts could material. Should any our estimates and assumptions change prove have been incorrect, could have material effect our business, consolidated financial position, results operations, cash flows. addition, possible that resolution one more such proceedings, including result settlement, could involve licenses, sanctions, consent decrees, orders requiring make substantial future payments, preventing from offering certain products services, requiring change our business practices manner materially adverse our business, requiring development non-infringing otherwise altered products technologies, damaging our reputation, otherwise having material effect our operations. Face Additional Tax Liabilities and Collection Obligations are subject variety taxes and tax collection obligations the . (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. may recognize additional tax expense and subject additional tax liabilities, including other liabilities for tax collection obligations due changes laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related tax, including changes the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules various jurisdictions. Such changes could come about result economic, political, and other conditions. increasing number jurisdictions are considering have adopted laws administrative practices that impose new tax measures, including revenue-based taxes, targeting online commerce and the remote selling goods and services. These include new obligations collect sales, consumption, value added, other taxes online marketplaces and remote sellers, other requirements that may result liability for third party obligations. For example, the European Union, certain member states, and other countries have proposed enacted taxes online advertising and marketplace service revenues. Our results operations and cash flows could adversely effected additional taxes this nature imposed prospectively retroactively additional taxes penalties resulting from the failure comply with any collection obligations failure provide information about our customers, suppliers, and other third parties for tax reporting purposes various government agencies. some cases also may not have sufficient notice enable build systems and adopt processes properly comply with new reporting collection obligations the effective date. Our tax expense and liabilities are also affected other factors, such changes our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount our foreign earnings, losses incurred jurisdictions for which are not able realize related tax benefits, the applicability special tax regimes, changes foreign currency exchange rates, changes our stock price, and changes our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation. Significant judgment required evaluating and estimating our tax expense and liabilities. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. For example, the legislation known the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “ . Tax Act”) requires complex computations performed that were not previously required . tax law, significant judgments made interpretation the provisions the . Tax Act, significant estimates calculations, and the preparation and analysis information not previously relevant regularly produced. The . Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies will continue interpret issue guidance how provisions the . Tax Act will applied otherwise administered. future guidance issued, may make adjustments amounts that have previously recorded that may materially impact our financial statements the period which the adjustments are made. are also subject tax controversies various jurisdictions that can result tax assessments against . Developments audit, investigation, other tax controversy can have material effect our operating results cash flows the period periods for which that development occurs, well for prior and subsequent periods. regularly assess the likelihood adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings determine the adequacy our tax accruals. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could materially different from our historical tax accruals. Our Supplier Relationships Subject Number Risks have significant suppliers, including content and technology licensors, and some cases, limited single-sources supply, that are important our sourcing, services, manufacturing, and any related ongoing servicing merchandise and content. not have long-term arrangements with most our suppliers guarantee availability merchandise, content, components, services, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. Decisions our current suppliers stop selling licensing merchandise, content, components, services acceptable terms, delay delivery, including result one more supplier bankruptcies due poor economic conditions, result natural disasters, for other reasons, may result our being unable procure alternatives from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms, all. addition, violations our suppliers other vendors applicable laws, regulations, contractual terms, intellectual property rights others, our Supply Chain Standards, well products practices regarded unethical, unsafe, hazardous, could expose claims, damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. Are Subject Risks Related Government Contracts and Related Procurement Regulations Our contracts with ., well state, local, and foreign, government entities are subject various procurement regulations and other requirements relating their formation, administration, and performance. are subject audits and investigations relating our government contracts, and any violations could result various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination contract, refunding suspending payments, forfeiture profits, payment fines, and suspension debarment from future government business. addition, some these contracts provide for termination the government any time, without cause. Are Subject Product Liability Claims When People Property Are Harmed the Products Sell Manufacture Some the products sell manufacture expose product liability food safety claims relating personal injury illness, death, environmental property damage, and can require product recalls other actions. Third parties who sell products using our services and stores increase our exposure product liability claims, such when these sellers not have sufficient protection from such claims. Although maintain liability insurance, cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. Although impose contractual terms sellers that are intended prohibit sales certain type products, may not able detect, enforce, collect sufficient damages for breaches such agreements. addition, some our agreements with our vendors and sellers not indemnify from product liability. Are Subject Payments-Related Risks accept payments using variety methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts (including promotional financing), gift cards, direct debit from customer’ bank account, consumer invoicing, physical bank check, and payment upon delivery. For existing and future payment options offer our customers, currently are subject , and may become subject additional, regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations implement enhanced authentication processes that could result significant costs and reduce the ease use our payments products), well fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. rely third parties provide certain Amazon-branded payment methods and payment processing services, including the processing credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing. each case, could disrupt our business these companies become unwilling unable provide these services . also offer -branded credit card programs, which could adversely affect our operating results renewed less favorable terms terminated. are also subject payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change reinterpreted make difficult impossible for comply. Failure comply with these rules requirements, well any breach, compromise, failure otherwise detect prevent fraudulent activity involving our data security systems, could result our being liable for card issuing banks’ costs, subject fines and higher transaction fees, and loss our ability accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, facilitate other types online payments, and our business and operating results could adversely affected. addition, provide regulated services certain jurisdictions because enable customers keep account balances with and transfer money third parties, and because provide services third parties facilitate payments their behalf. Jurisdictions subject requirements for licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding and capital maintenance, the use, handling, and segregation transferred funds, consumer disclosures, maintaining processing data, and authentication. are also subject voluntarily comply with number other laws and regulations relating payments, money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security, and electronic fund transfers. were found violation applicable laws regulations, could subject additional requirements and civil and criminal penalties, forced cease providing certain services. Are Impacted Fraudulent Unlawful Activities Sellers The law relating the liability online service providers currently unsettled. addition, governmental agencies have the past and could the future require changes the way this business conducted. Under our seller programs, maintain policies and processes designed prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered when the products received are materially different from the sellers’ descriptions, and prevent sellers our stores through other stores from selling unlawful, counterfeit, pirated, stolen goods, selling goods unlawful unethical manner, violating the proprietary rights others, otherwise violating our policies. When these policies and processes are circumvented fail operate sufficiently, can harm our business damage our reputation and could face civil criminal liability for unlawful activities our sellers. Under our A2Z Guarantee, reimburse buyers for payments certain limits these situations, and our third-party seller sales grow, the cost this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties December , , operated the following facilities ( thousands): Description Use Leased Square Footage ( ) Owned Square Footage Location Office space , , North America Office space , , International Physical stores ( ) , North America Physical stores ( ) — International Fulfillment, data centers, and other , , North America Fulfillment, data centers, and other , , International Total , , ___________________ ( ) For leased properties, represents the total leased space excluding sub-leased space. ( ) This includes North America and International stores December , . Segment Leased Square Footage ( ) Owned Square Footage ( ) North America , , International , AWS , , Total , , ___________________ ( ) Segment amounts exclude corporate facilities. Shared facilities are allocated among the segments based usage and primarily relate facilities that hold our technology infrastructure. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Segment Information.” own and lease our corporate headquarters Seattle, Washington and Arlington, Virginia. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings.” ', 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant’ Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.” Holders January , , there were , shareholders record our common stock, although there much larger number beneficial owners. Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases Equity Securities None. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. Year Ended December , ( ) ( millions, except per share data) Statements Operations: Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ $ , $ , $ , $ , Basic earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ $ Weighted-average shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted Statements Cash Flows: Net cash provided (used ) operating activities ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , December , ( ) ( millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total long-term obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) acquired Whole Foods Market August , . The results Whole Foods Market have been included our results operation from the date acquisition. ( ) For further discussion earnings per share, see Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Description Business and Accounting Policies.” ( ) result the adoption new accounting guidance, retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements cash flows add restricted cash cash and cash equivalents, which restated cash provided operating activities $( ) million, $( ) million, and $( ) million , , and . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Description Business and Accounting Policies” for additional information. ( ) result the adoption new accounting guidance January , , recognized lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms more than twelve months. Prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue reported accordance with our historic accounting policies. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Description Business and Accounting Policies” for additional information. ', 'item 7. ': 'Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’ current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, fluctuations foreign exchange rates, changes global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate growth the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon com invests new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products and services sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, the extent which owe income other taxes, competition, management growth, potential fluctuations operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes claims, litigation, government investigations, and other proceedings, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks inventory management, seasonality, the degree which enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks fulfillment throughput and productivity. addition, the global economic climate amplifies many these risks. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management’ expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , “Risk Factors.” Overview Our primary source revenue the sale wide range products and services customers . The products offered through our stores include merchandise and content have purchased for resale and products offered third-party sellers, and also manufacture and sell electronic devices and produce media content. Generally, recognize gross revenue from items sell from our inventory product sales and recognize our net share revenue items sold third-party sellers service sales. seek increase unit sales across our stores, through increased product selection, across numerous product categories. also offer other services such compute, storage, and database offerings, fulfillment, advertising, publishing, and digital content subscriptions. Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flows . Free cash flows are driven primarily increasing operating income and efficiently managing working capital and cash capital expenditures, including our decision purchase lease property and equipment. Increases operating income primarily result from increases sales products and services and efficiently managing our operating costs, partially offset investments make longer-term strategic initiatives, including capital expenditures focused improving the customer experience. increase sales products and services, focus improving all aspects the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, producing original content, increasing product categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease use, improving reliability, and earning customer trust. seek reduce our variable costs per unit and work leverage our fixed costs. Our variable costs include product and content costs, payment processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, costs necessary run AWS, and portion our marketing costs. Our fixed costs include the costs necessary build and run our technology infrastructure; build, enhance, and add features our online stores, web services, electronic devices, and digital offerings; and build and optimize our fulfillment and delivery networks and related facilities. Variable costs generally change directly with sales volume, while fixed costs generally are dependent the timing capacity needs, geographic expansion, category expansion, and other factors. decrease our variable costs per unit basis and enable lower prices for customers, seek increase our direct sourcing, increase discounts from suppliers, and reduce defects our processes. minimize unnecessary growth fixed costs, seek improve process efficiencies and maintain lean culture. _______________________ ( ) See “Results Operations — Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for additional information our non-GAAP free cash flows financial measures. ( ) Working capital consists accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable. Because our model are able turn our inventory quickly and have cash-generating operating cycle . average, our high inventory velocity means generally collect from consumers before our payments suppliers come due. expect variability inventory turnover over time since affected numerous factors, including our product mix, the mix sales and third-party sellers, our continuing focus -stock inventory availability and selection product offerings, our investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent which choose utilize third-party fulfillment providers. also expect some variability accounts payable days over time since they are affected several factors, including the mix product sales, the mix sales third-party sellers, the mix suppliers, seasonality, and changes payment terms over time, including the effect balancing pricing and timing payment terms with suppliers. expect spending technology and content will increase over time add computer scientists, designers, software and hardware engineers, and merchandising employees. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support variety product and service offerings due geographic expansion and the cross-functionality our systems and operations. seek invest efficiently several areas technology and content, including AWS, and expansion new and existing product categories and service offerings, well technology infrastructure enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiencies. believe that advances technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost processing power, the advances wireless connectivity, and the practical applications artificial intelligence and machine learning, will continue improve the consumer experience the Internet and increase its ubiquity people’ lives. best take advantage these continued advances technology, are investing initiatives build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices. are also investing AWS, which offers broad set global compute, storage, database, and other service offerings developers and enterprises all sizes. seek efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility issue shares for strategic purposes, such financings, acquisitions, and aligning employee compensation with shareholders’ interests. utilize restricted stock units our primary vehicle for equity compensation because believe this compensation model aligns the long-term interests our shareholders and employees. measuring shareholder dilution, include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, without regard estimated forfeitures. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were million and million December , and . Our financial reporting currency the . Dollar and changes foreign exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends . For example, the . Dollar weakens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will higher than currencies had remained constant. Likewise, the . Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will lower than currencies had remained constant. believe that our increasing diversification beyond the . economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders over the long-term. also believe useful evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect currency changes. addition, the remeasurement our intercompany balances can result significant gains and losses associated with the effect movements foreign currency exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact (either positively negatively) our reported results and consolidated trends and comparisons. For additional information about each line item addressed above, refer Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Description Business and Accounting Policies.” Our Annual Report Form - for the year ended December , includes discussion and analysis our financial condition and results operations for the year ended December , Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations.” _______________________ ( ) The operating cycle the number days sales inventory plus the number days sales accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company’ critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company’ financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information, see Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Description Business and Accounting Policies.” Although believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first- first-out method, and are valued the lower cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition inventory are inherently uncertain and changes our estimates and assumptions may cause realize material write-downs the future. measure sensitivity, for every % additional inventory valuation allowance December , , would have recorded additional cost sales approximately $ million . addition, enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products. These commitments are based forecasted customer demand. reduce these commitments, may incur additional costs. Income Taxes are subject income taxes the . (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations various jurisdictions may subject significant change, with without notice, due economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment required evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course business for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. Our effective tax rates could affected numerous factors, such changes our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated jurisdictions where have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated jurisdictions where have higher statutory rates, losses incurred jurisdictions for which are not able realize related tax benefits, the applicability special tax regimes, changes foreign currency exchange rates, changes our stock price, changes our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, changes the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related tax, including changes the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules various jurisdictions. addition, number countries are actively pursuing changes their tax laws applicable corporate multinationals, such the . tax reform legislation commonly known the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “ . Tax Act”). Finally, foreign governments may enact tax laws response the . Tax Act that could result further changes global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results operations. The . Tax Act significantly changed how the . taxes corporations. The . Tax Act requires complex computations performed that were not previously required . tax law, significant judgments made interpretation the provisions the . Tax Act, significant estimates calculations, and the preparation and analysis information not previously relevant regularly produced. The . Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies will continue interpret issue guidance how provisions the . Tax Act will applied otherwise administered. future guidance issued, may make adjustments amounts that have previously recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes the period which the adjustments are made. are also currently subject tax controversies various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against . Developments audit, investigation, other tax controversy could have material effect our operating results cash flows the period periods for which that development occurs, well for prior and subsequent periods. regularly assess the likelihood adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings determine the adequacy our tax accruals. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome audits, investigations, and any other tax controversies could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Description Business and Accounting Policies.” Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information, which reflects retrospective adjustments our consolidated statements cash flows described Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Description Business and Accounting Policies,” follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Cash provided (used ): Operating activities $ , $ , Investing activities ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities ( , ) ( , ) Our principal sources liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, fair value, were $ billion and $ billion December , and . Amounts held foreign currencies were $ billion and $ billion December , and , and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided (used ) operating activities was $ billion and $ billion and . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and advertisers, offset cash payments make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards buy from , our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase operating cash flow , compared the prior year, primarily due the increase net income, excluding non-cash charges such depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Cash provided (used ) operating activities also subject changes working capital. Working capital any specific point time subject many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations foreign exchange rates. Cash provided (used ) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, proceeds from asset sales, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities marketable securities. Cash provided (used ) investing activities was $( ) billion and $( ) billion and , with the variability caused primarily our decision purchase lease property and equipment and purchases, maturities, and sales marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $ billion , and $ billion and , which primarily reflect additional capacity support our fulfillment operations and additional investments support continued business growth technology infrastructure (the majority which support AWS). made cash payments, net acquired cash, related acquisition and other investment activity $ billion and $ billion and . Cash provided (used ) financing activities was $( ) billion and $( ) billion and . Cash outflows from financing activities result from principal repayments finance leases and financing obligations and repayments long-term debt and other, and were $ billion and $ billion and . Property and equipment acquired under finance leases was $ billion and $ billion and , with the increase reflecting investments support continued business growth primarily due investments technology infrastructure for AWS, which investments expect continue over time. had borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program (the “Commercial Paper Program”) unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) and $ million borrowings outstanding under our $ million secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) December , . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Debt” for additional information. and , recorded net tax provisions $ billion and $ billion . Certain foreign subsidiary earnings are subject . taxation under the . Tax Act, which also repeals . taxation the subsequent repatriation those earnings. intend invest substantially all our foreign subsidiary earnings, well our capital our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside the . those jurisdictions which would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation such amounts. December , , cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held foreign subsidiaries was $ billion . Tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions are reducing our . taxable income. The . Tax Act enhanced and extended accelerated depreciation deductions allowing full expensing qualified property, primarily equipment, through . Cash taxes paid (net refunds) were $ billion and $ million for and . December , , had approximately $ billion federal tax credits potentially available offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related the . federal research and development credit. utilize our federal tax credits expect cash paid for taxes increase. endeavor manage our global taxes cash basis, rather than financial reporting basis. connection with the European Commission’ October decision against state aid, Luxembourg tax authorities computed initial recovery amount, consistent with the European Commission’ decision, approximately € million , that deposited into escrow March , subject adjustment pending conclusion all appeals. Our liquidity also affected restricted cash balances that are pledged collateral for real estate leases, amounts due third-party sellers certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters credit. the extent process payments for third-party sellers offer certain types stored value our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use those funds. These restrictions would result the reclassification portion our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” restricted cash, which classified within “Accounts receivable, net and other” and “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets. December , and , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $ million and $ million . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion our principal contractual commitments, well our pledged assets. Additionally, purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $ billion December , . These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable full part through the contractual provisions. believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, well our borrowing arrangements, will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next twelve months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , “Risk Factors.” continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities, obtain finance and operating lease arrangements, enter into financing obligations, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, repurchase, refinance, otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities would likely dilutive our shareholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition , investment , complementary businesses, products, services, capital infrastructure, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause secure additional financing, issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that additional credit lines financing instruments will available amounts terms acceptable , all. Results Operations have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Segment Information.” Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale products and related shipping fees and digital media content where record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, Amazon Prime membership fees, advertising services, and certain digital content subscriptions. Net sales information follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Net Sales: North America $ , $ , International , , AWS , , Consolidated $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America % % International AWS Consolidated Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect foreign exchange rates: North America % % International AWS Consolidated Net sales mix: North America % % International AWS Consolidated % % Sales increased % , compared the prior year. Changes foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales $ billion and $( ) billion for and . For discussion the effect sales growth foreign exchange rates, see “Effect Foreign Exchange Rates” below. North America sales increased % , compared the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased -stock inventory availability, and increased selection. International sales increased % , compared the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased -stock inventory availability, and increased selection. Changes foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales $ billion and $( ) billion and . AWS sales increased % , compared the prior year. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) segment follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Operating Income (Loss): North America $ , $ , International ( , ) ( , ) AWS , , Consolidated $ , $ , Operating income was $ billion and $ billion for and . believe that operating income (loss) more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due the diversity our product categories and services. The decrease North America operating income absolute dollars , compared the prior year, primarily due increased shipping costs and marketing expense, partially offset increased unit sales, including sales third-party sellers, and advertising sales and slower growth certain operating expenses. Changes foreign exchange rates impacted operating income $ million and $ million for and . The decrease International operating loss absolute dollars , compared the prior year, primarily due increased unit sales, including sales third-party sellers, and advertising sales, and slower growth certain operating expenses, partially offset increased marketing expense. Changes foreign exchange rates impacted operating loss $ million and $( ) million for and . The increase AWS operating income absolute dollars , compared the prior year, primarily due increased customer usage and cost structure productivity, partially offset pricing changes and increased spending technology infrastructure and payroll and related expenses, which was primarily driven additional investments support the business growth. Changes foreign exchange rates impacted operating income $( ) million and $ million for and . Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Operating expenses: Cost sales $ , $ , Fulfillment , , Technology and content , , Marketing , , General and administrative , , Other operating expense (income), net Total operating expenses $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Cost sales % % Fulfillment Technology and content Marketing General and administrative Other operating expense (income), net ( ) Percent Net Sales: Cost sales % % Fulfillment Technology and content Marketing General and administrative Other operating expense (income), net Cost Sales Cost sales primarily consists the purchase price consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related sortation and delivery centers and where are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where record revenue gross, including video and music. The increase cost sales absolute dollars , compared the prior year, primarily due increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Shipping costs receive products from our suppliers are included our inventory and recognized cost sales upon sale products our customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery centers and transportation costs, were $ billion and $ billion and . expect our cost shipping continue increase the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers increasing rate, reduce shipping rates, use more expensive shipping methods, including faster delivery, and offer additional services. seek mitigate costs shipping over time part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. believe that offering low prices our customers fundamental our future success, and one way offer lower prices through shipping offers. Costs operate our AWS segment are primarily classified “Technology and content” leverage shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales AWS customers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist those costs incurred operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified “Technology and content.” Fulfillment costs percentage net sales may vary due several factors, such payment processing and related transaction costs, our level productivity and accuracy, changes volume, size, and weight units received and fulfilled, the extent which third party sellers utilize Fulfillment Amazon services, timing fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent utilize fulfillment services provided third parties, mix products and services sold, and our ability affect customer service contacts per unit implementing improvements our operations and enhancements our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with seller transactions are based the gross purchase price underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs are higher percentage sales versus our retail sales, sales our sellers have higher payment processing costs percent net sales. The increase fulfillment costs absolute dollars , compared the prior year, primarily due variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels and costs from expanding our fulfillment network, which includes physical stores. seek expand our fulfillment network accommodate greater selection and -stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales our own products well sales third parties for which provide the fulfillment services. regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved the research and development new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance our stores, curation and display products and services made available our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments make order offer wide variety products and services our customers. seek invest efficiently numerous areas technology and content may continue enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support variety product and service offerings due geographic expansion and the cross-functionality our systems and operations. expect spending technology and content increase over time continue add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are allocated segments based usage. The increase technology and content costs absolute dollars , compared the prior year, primarily due increase spending technology infrastructure and increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives introduce new products and service offerings. expect technology and content costs grow slower rate due increase the estimated useful life our servers, which will impact each our segments. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Description Business and Accounting Policies — Use Estimates” for additional information the change estimated useful life our servers. Marketing Marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related AWS. direct customers our stores primarily through number marketing channels, such our sponsored search, third party customer referrals, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based growth sales and changes rates. the extent there increased decreased competition for these traffic sources, the extent our mix these channels shifts, would expect see corresponding change our marketing costs. The increase marketing costs absolute dollars , compared the prior year, primarily due increased spending marketing channels, well payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included marketing expense, view these offers effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend continue offering them indefinitely. General and Administrative The increase general and administrative costs absolute dollars , compared the prior year, primarily due increases payroll and related expenses. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $ million and $ million during and , and primarily related the amortization intangible assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $ million and $ million during and . generally invest our excess cash AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance invested funds based the prevailing rates, which vary depending the geographies and currencies which they are invested. Interest expense was $ billion and $ billion and . The increase primarily related finance leases. Our long-term lease liabilities were $ billion and $ billion December , and . Our long-term debt was $ billion and $ billion December , and . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Leases and Note — Debt” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $( ) million and $ million during and . The primary components other income (expense), net are related equity securities and warrant valuations and foreign currency. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate subject significant variation due several factors, including variability our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix jurisdictions which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability special tax regimes, changes how business, acquisitions, investments, audit-related developments, changes our stock price, changes our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related tax, including changes the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules various jurisdictions, and relative changes expenses losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can more less volatile based the amount pre-tax income loss. For example, the impact discrete items and non-deductible expenses our effective tax rate greater when our pre-tax income lower. recorded provision for income taxes $ billion and $ billion and . Our provision for income taxes was higher than primarily due increase . pre-tax income, decline excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and the one-time provisional tax benefit the . Tax Act recognized . Tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions are reducing our . taxable income. The . Tax Act enhanced and extended accelerated depreciation deductions allowing full expensing qualified property, primarily equipment, through . December , , had approximately $ billion federal tax credits potentially available offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related the . federal research and development credit. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Income Taxes” for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation , Conditions for Use Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures free cash flows and the effect foreign exchange rates our consolidated statements operations meet the definition non-GAAP financial measures. provide multiple measures free cash flows because believe these measures provide additional perspective the impact acquiring property and equipment with cash and through finance leases and financing obligations. adopted new lease accounting guidance January , without retrospectively adjusting prior periods. result, the line items used our calculation measures free cash flows have changed. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Description Business and Accounting Policies.” Free Cash Flow Free cash flow cash flow from operations reduced “Purchases property and equipment, net proceeds from sales and incentives.” The following reconciliation free cash flow the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,” for and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment, net proceeds from sales and incentives ( , ) ( , ) Free cash flow $ , $ , Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Free Cash Flow Less Principal Repayments Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less principal repayments finance leases and financing obligations free cash flow reduced “Principal repayments finance leases” and “Principal repayments financing obligations.” Principal repayments finance leases and financing obligations approximates the actual payments cash for our finance leases and financing obligations. The following reconciliation free cash flow less principal repayments finance leases and financing obligations the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,” for and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment, net proceeds from sales and incentives ( , ) ( , ) Free cash flow , , Principal repayments finance leases ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Principal repayments financing obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow less principal repayments finance leases and financing obligations $ , $ , Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) _______________ ( ) Amounts for have not been retrospectively adjusted. Free Cash Flow Less Equipment Finance Leases and Principal Repayments All Other Finance Leases and Financing Obligations Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments all other finance leases and financing obligations free cash flow reduced equipment acquired under finance leases, which included “Property and equipment acquired under finance leases,” principal repayments all other finance lease liabilities, which included “Principal repayments finance leases,” and “Principal repayments financing obligations.” All other finance lease liabilities and financing obligations consists property. this measure, equipment acquired under finance leases reflected these assets had been purchased with cash, which not the case these assets have been leased. The following reconciliation free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments all other finance leases and financing obligations the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,” for and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment, net proceeds from sales and incentives ( , ) ( , ) Free cash flow , , Equipment acquired under finance leases ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Principal repayments all other finance leases ( ) — ( ) Principal repayments financing obligations ( ) ( ) Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments all other finance leases and financing obligations $ , $ , Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ___________________ ( ) For the twelve months ended December , , this amount relates equipment included “Property and equipment acquired under finance leases” $ , million . Amounts for have not been retrospectively adjusted. ( ) For the twelve months ended December , , this amount relates property included “Principal repayments finance leases” $ , million . Amounts for have not been retrospectively adjusted. All these free cash flows measures have limitations they omit certain components the overall cash flow statement and not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures free cash flows not incorporate the portion payments representing principal reductions debt cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix property and equipment acquisitions with cash other financing options may change over time. Therefore, believe important view free cash flows measures only complement our entire consolidated statements cash flows. Effect Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect foreign exchange rates, versus the . Dollar, our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income provided show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same those effect the comparable prior year periods. The effect our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes our foreign exchange rates versus the . Dollar follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Reported Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Prior Year Rates ( ) Reported Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Prior Year Rates ( ) Net sales $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses , ( , ) , , , , Operating income , ( ) , , ( ) , ___ ________________ ( ) Represents the change reported amounts resulting from changes foreign exchange rates from those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results. ( ) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates the reported period been the same those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results. Guidance provided guidance January , , our earnings release furnished Form - set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon com’ expectations January , , and are subject substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may materially affected many factors, such fluctuations foreign exchange rates, changes global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate growth the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, well those outlined Item Part , “Risk Factors.” First Quarter Guidance • Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and % compared with first quarter . This guidance anticipates favorable impact approximately basis points from foreign exchange rates. • Operating income expected between $ billion and $ billion, compared with $ billion first quarter . This guidance includes approximately $ million lower depreciation expense due increase the estimated useful life our servers beginning January , . • This guidance assumes, among other things, that additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings, legal settlements are concluded. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk set forth below and Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our long-term debt carried amortized cost and fluctuations interest rates not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value our debt, which pays interest fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. generally invest our excess cash AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined market value due changes interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates December , ( millions, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Money market funds $ , $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % — % — % — % — % — % % Corporate debt securities , , , — , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % % — % % . government and agency securities , , — , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % % — % % Asset-backed securities , — , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % % — % % Foreign government and agency securities , — — , , Weighted average interest rate % % % — % % — % % Other fixed income securities — — Weighted average interest rate % % % % — % — % % $ , $ , $ , $ $ $ — $ , Cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities $ , December , , had $ billion debt, including the current portion, primarily consisting the following fixed rate unsecured debt ( millions): % Notes due August , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due November , $ , % Notes due February , $ , % Notes due August , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due August , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due August , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due August , $ , % Notes due August , $ , Based upon quoted market prices and Level inputs, the fair value our total debt was $ billion December , . Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from our International segment accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally-focused stores, including within Canada and Mexico (which are included our North America segment), are primarily denominated the functional currencies the corresponding stores and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused stores and AWS are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. For example, result fluctuations foreign exchange rates throughout the year compared rates effect the prior year, International segment net sales decreased $ billion comparison with the prior year. have foreign exchange risk related foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based the balance foreign funds December , , $ billion , assumed %, %, and % adverse change foreign exchange would result fair value declines $ million , $ billion , and $ billion . Fluctuations fair value are recorded “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” separate component stockholders’ equity. Equity securities with readily determinable fair values are included “Marketable securities” our consolidated balance sheets and are measured fair value with changes recognized net income. have foreign exchange risk related our intercompany balances denominated various foreign currencies. Based the intercompany balances December , , assumed %, %, and % adverse change foreign exchange would result losses $ million , $ million , and $ million , recorded “Other income (expense), net.” See Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations — Results Operations — Effect Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information the effect reported results changes foreign exchange rates. Equity Investment Risk December , , our recorded value equity and equity warrant investments public and private companies was $ billion . Our equity and equity warrant investments publicly traded companies represent $ million our investments December , , and are recorded fair value, which subject market price volatility. perform qualitative assessment for our equity investments private companies identify impairment. this assessment indicates that impairment exists, estimate the fair value the investment and, the fair value less than carrying value, write down the investment fair value. Our assessment includes review recent operating results and trends, recent sales acquisitions the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations private companies are inherently more complex due the lack readily available market data. such, believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Amazon com, Inc. Opinion the Financial Statements have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. (the Company) December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , and the related notes (collectively referred the “consolidated financial statements”). our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position the Company December , and , and the results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’ internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated January , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Adoption New Accounting Standard discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company has changed its method for accounting for leases due the adoption ASU . - , Leases (Topic ). Basis for Opinion These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company’ management. Our responsibility express opinion the Company’ consolidated financial statements based our audits. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free material misstatement, whether due error fraud. Our audits included performing procedures assess the risks material misstatement the consolidated financial statements, whether due error fraud, and performing procedures that respond those risks. Such procedures included examining, test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall presentation the consolidated financial statements. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below matter arising from the current period audit the consolidated financial statements that was communicated required communicated the audit committee and that: ( ) relates accounts disclosures that are material the consolidated financial statements and ( ) involved our especially challenging, subjective, complex judgments. The communication the critical audit matter does not alter any way our opinion the consolidated financial statements, taken whole, and are not, communicating the critical audit matter below, providing separate opinion the critical audit matter the accounts disclosures which relates. Uncertain Tax Positions Description the Matter The Company subject income taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions and, discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, during the ordinary course business, there are many tax positions for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. result, significant judgment required evaluating the Company’ tax positions and determining its provision for income taxes. The Company uses significant judgment ( ) determining whether tax position’ technical merits are more likely than not sustained and ( ) measuring the amount tax benefit that qualifies for recognition. December , , the Company accrued liabilities $ billion for various tax contingencies. Auditing the measurement the Company’ tax contingencies was challenging because the evaluation whether tax position more likely than not sustained and the measurement the benefit various tax positions can complex, involves significant judgment, and based interpretations tax laws and legal rulings. How Addressed the Matter Our Audit tested controls over the Company’ process assess the technical merits its tax contingencies, including controls over the assessment whether tax position more likely than not sustained, management’ process measure the benefit its tax positions, and the development the related disclosures. involved our international tax, transfer pricing, and research and development tax professionals assessing the technical merits certain the Company’ tax positions. Depending the nature the specific tax position and, applicable, developments with the relevant tax authorities relating thereto, our procedures included obtaining and examining the Company’ analysis including the Company’ correspondence with such tax authorities and evaluating the underlying facts upon which the tax positions are based. used our knowledge , and experience with, international, transfer pricing, and other income tax laws the relevant income tax authorities evaluate the Company’ accounting for its tax contingencies. evaluated developments the applicable regulatory environments assess potential effects the Company’ positions. analyzed the Company’ assumptions and data used determine the amount tax benefits recognize and tested the accuracy the Company’ calculations. have also evaluated the Company’ income tax disclosures included Note relation these matters. / / Ernst & Young LLP have served the Company’ auditor since . Seattle, Washington January , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization property and equipment and capitalized content costs, operating lease assets, and other , , , Stock-based compensation , , , Other operating expense (income), net Other expense (income), net ( ) ( ) Deferred income taxes ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable, net and other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts payable , , , Accrued expenses and other ( , ) Unearned revenue , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities , , , INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from property and equipment sales and incentives , , , Acquisitions, net cash acquired, and other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sales and maturities marketable securities , , , Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from long-term debt and other , , Repayments long-term debt and other ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Principal repayments finance leases ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Principal repayments financing obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities , ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency effect cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash ( ) Net increase (decrease) cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash , , , CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, END PERIOD $ , $ , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest long-term debt $ $ $ Cash paid for operating leases — — , Cash paid for interest finance leases Cash paid for interest financing obligations Cash paid for income taxes, net refunds , Assets acquired under operating leases — — , Property and equipment acquired under finance leases , , , Property and equipment acquired under build- -suit arrangements , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended December , Net product sales $ , $ , $ , Net service sales , , , Total net sales , , , Operating expenses: Cost sales , , , Fulfillment , , , Technology and content , , , Marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Other operating expense (income), net Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Interest income Interest expense ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income (expense), net ( ) Total non-operating income (expense) ( ) ( , ) ( ) Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Equity-method investment activity, net tax ( ) ( ) Net income $ , $ , $ , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ Weighted-average shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Year Ended December , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income (loss): Net change foreign currency translation adjustments: Foreign currency translation adjustments, net tax $ , $ , and $( ) ( ) Reclassification adjustment for foreign currency translation included “Other operating expense (income), net,” net tax $ , $ , and $ — — ( ) Net foreign currency translation adjustments ( ) ( ) Net change unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale debt securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net tax $ , $ , and $( ) ( ) ( ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included “Other income (expense), net,” net tax $ , $ , and $ ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale debt securities ( ) ( ) Total other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) Comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except per share data) December , ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Inventories , , Accounts receivable, net and other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Operating leases — , Goodwill , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other , , Unearned revenue , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term lease liabilities , , Long-term debt , , Other long-term liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies (Note ) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares — Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares — , Issued shares — and Outstanding shares — and Treasury stock, cost ( , ) ( , ) Additional paid- capital , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Total stockholders’ equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY ( millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid- Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance January , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , Cumulative effect change accounting principle related stock-based compensation — — — — — Net income — — — — — , , Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — — Exercise common stock options — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock — — — , — — , Balance December , ( , ) , ( ) , , Cumulative effect change accounting principles related revenue recognition, income taxes, and financial instruments — — — — ( ) Net income — — — — — , , Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — ( ) — ( ) Exercise common stock options — — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock — — — , — — , Balance December , ( , ) , ( , ) , , Cumulative effect change accounting principle related leases — — — — — Net income — — — — — , , Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — — Exercise common stock options — — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock — — — , — — , Balance December , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note — DESCRIPTION BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business seek Earth’ most customer-centric company. each our segments, serve our primary customer sets, consisting consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus selection, price, and convenience. offer programs that enable sellers sell their products our stores and fulfill orders through , and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, skill and app developers, and others publish and sell content. serve developers and enterprises all sizes through our AWS segment, which offers broad set global compute, storage, database, and other service offerings. also manufacture and sell electronic devices. addition, provide services, such advertising sellers, vendors, publishers, and authors, through programs such sponsored ads, display, and video advertising. have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. See “Note — Segment Information.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified conform the current period presentation, including the addition restricted cash cash and cash equivalents our consolidated statements cash flows and the reclassification long-term capital lease obligations that existed December , from “Other long-term liabilities” “Long-term lease liabilities” within the consolidated balance sheets, result the adoption new accounting guidance. See “Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted.” Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Amazon com, Inc. and its consolidated entities (collectively, the “Company”), consisting its wholly-owned subsidiaries and those entities which have variable interest and which are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities India and certain entities that support our seller lending financing activities. Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. The financial results Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included our consolidated financial statements from the date acquisition August , . Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , income taxes, useful lives equipment, commitments and contingencies, valuation acquired intangibles and goodwill, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, vendor funding, and inventory valuation. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. For example, completed useful life study for our servers and are increasing the useful life from three years four years for servers January , which, based servers that are included “Property and equipment, net” December , , will have anticipated impact our operating income $ billion . Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect stock awards determined under the treasury stock method. periods when have net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation earnings per share their inclusion would have antidilutive effect. The following table shows the calculation diluted shares ( millions): Year Ended December , Shares used computation basic earnings per share Total dilutive effect outstanding stock awards Shares used computation diluted earnings per share Revenue Revenue measured based the amount consideration that expect receive, reduced estimates for return allowances, promotional discounts, and rebates. Revenue also excludes any amounts collected behalf third parties, including sales and indirect taxes. arrangements where have multiple performance obligations, the transaction price allocated each performance obligation using the relative stand-alone selling price. generally determine stand-alone selling prices based the prices charged customers using expected cost plus margin. description our principal revenue generating activities follows: Retail sales - offer consumer products through our online and physical stores. Revenue recognized when control the goods transferred the customer, which generally occurs upon our delivery third-party carrier , the case Amazon delivery, the customer. Third-party seller services - offer programs that enable sellers sell their products our stores, and fulfill orders through . are not the seller record these transactions. The commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees earn from these arrangements are recognized when the services are rendered, which generally occurs upon delivery the related products third-party carrier , the case Amazon delivery, the customer. Subscription services - Our subscription sales include fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships and access content including audiobooks, digital video, digital music, -books, and other non-AWS subscription services. Prime memberships provide our customers with access evolving suite benefits that represent single stand-ready obligation. Subscriptions are paid for the time advance delivering the services. Revenue from such arrangements recognized over the subscription period. AWS - Our AWS arrangements include global sales compute, storage, database, and other services. Revenue allocated services using stand-alone selling prices and primarily recognized when the customer uses these services, based the quantity services rendered, such compute storage capacity delivered -demand. Certain services, including compute and database, are also offered fixed quantity over specified term, for which revenue recognized ratably. Sales commissions pay connection with contracts that exceed one year are capitalized and amortized over the contract term. Other - Other revenue primarily includes sales advertising services, which are recognized ads are delivered based the number clicks impressions. Return Allowances Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost sales, are estimated using historical experience. Liabilities for return allowances are included “Accrued expenses and other” and were $ million , $ million , and $ million December , , , and . Additions the allowance were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion and deductions from the allowance were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . Included “Inventories” our consolidated balance sheets are assets totaling $ million , $ million , and $ million December , , , and , for the rights recover products from customers associated with our liabilities for return allowances. Cost Sales Cost sales primarily consists the purchase price consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, including costs related sortation and delivery centers and where are the transportation service provider, and digital media content costs where record revenue gross, including video and music. Shipping costs receive products from our suppliers are included our inventory, and recognized cost sales upon sale products our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified “Fulfillment” our consolidated statements operations. Vendor Agreements have agreements with our vendors receive funds primarily for cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, incentives, and volume rebates. generally consider these amounts received from vendors reduction the prices pay for their goods, including property and equipment, services, and are recorded reduction the cost inventory, cost services, cost property and equipment. Volume rebates typically depend reaching minimum purchase thresholds. evaluate the likelihood reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can reasonably estimated, record portion the rebate make progress towards the purchase threshold. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist those costs incurred operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers, including costs attributable buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third parties that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved the research and development new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance our stores, curation and display products and services made available our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments make order offer wide variety products and services our customers. Technology and content costs are generally expensed incurred. Marketing Marketing costs primarily consist advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities, including sales commissions related AWS. pay commissions third parties when their customer referrals result sales. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs market our products and services are expensed incurred and were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist costs for corporate functions, including payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment expenses, such depreciation and amortization expense and rent; and professional fees and litigation costs. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected vest measured fair value the date grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value restricted stock units determined based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense over the service period, net estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including historical forfeiture experience and employee level. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily marketing-related, contract-based, and customer-related intangible asset amortization expense, and expenses related legal settlements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily adjustments and gains equity securities $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and , equity warrant valuation gains (losses) $ million , $( ) million , and $ million , , and , and foreign currency gains (losses) $ million , $( ) million , and $( ) million , , and . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Certain foreign subsidiary earnings are subject . taxation under the . Tax Act, which also repeals . taxation the subsequent repatriation those earnings. intend invest substantially all our foreign subsidiary earnings, well our capital our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside the . those jurisdictions which would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation such amounts. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe they will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative loss experience and expectations future earnings, capital gains and investment such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. utilize two-step approach recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step evaluate the tax position for recognition determining the weight available evidence indicates more likely than not the position will sustained audit, including resolution related appeals litigation processes. The second step measure the tax benefit the largest amount which more than % likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. include interest and penalties related our tax contingencies income tax expense. Fair Value Financial Instruments Fair value defined the price that would received sell asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. increase the comparability fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs valuation methodologies used measure fair value: Level — Valuations based quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities active markets. Level — Valuations based observable inputs other than quoted prices included Level , such quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities active markets, quoted prices for identical similar assets and liabilities markets that are not active, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data. Level — Valuations based unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. For our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, measure the fair value money market funds and certain marketable equity securities based quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. Other marketable securities were valued either based recent trades securities inactive markets based quoted market prices similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. did not hold significant amounts cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, marketable securities categorized Level assets December , and . hold equity warrants giving the right acquire stock other companies. December , and , these warrants had fair value $ million and $ million , and are recorded within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets. These assets are primarily classified Level assets. Cash and Cash Equivalents classify all highly liquid instruments with original maturity three months less cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first- , first-out method, and are valued the lower cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. provide Fulfillment Amazon services connection with certain our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership their inventory, regardless whether fulfillment provided the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included our inventories. also purchase electronic device components from variety suppliers and use several contract manufacturers provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course business, order manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic device components. portion our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based forecasted customer demand. reduce these commitments, may incur additional costs. also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products offered our Whole Foods Market stores. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included “Accounts receivable, net and other” our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related customers, vendors, and sellers. December , and , customer receivables, net, were $ billion and $ billion , vendor receivables, net, were $ billion and $ billion , and seller receivables, net, were $ million and $ million . Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related our seller lending program, which provides funding sellers primarily procure inventory. estimate losses receivables based known troubled accounts and historical experience losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when probable that all contractual payments due will not collected accordance with the terms the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $ million , $ million , and $ million December , , , and . Additions the allowance were $ million , $ million , and $ billion , and deductions the allowance were $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . Software Development Costs incur software development costs related products sold, leased, marketed external users, internal-use software, and our websites. Software development costs capitalized were not significant for the years presented. All other costs, including those related design maintenance, are expensed incurred. Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Incentives that receive from property and equipment vendors are recorded reduction our costs. Property includes buildings and land that own, along with property have acquired under build- -suit lease arrangements when have control over the building during the construction period and finance lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such servers and networking equipment, heavy equipment, and other fulfillment equipment. Depreciation and amortization recorded straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, ten years for heavy equipment, and three seven years for other fulfillment equipment). Depreciation and amortization expense classified within the corresponding operating expense categories our consolidated statements operations. Leases categorize leases with contractual terms longer than twelve months either operating finance. Finance leases are generally those leases that allow substantially utilize pay for the entire asset over its estimated life. Assets acquired under finance leases are recorded property and equipment, net. All other leases are categorized operating leases. Our leases generally have terms that range from one ten years for equipment and one twenty years for property. Certain lease contracts include obligations pay for other services, such operations and maintenance. For leases property, account for these other services component the lease. For substantially all other leases, the services are accounted for separately and allocate payments the lease and other services components based estimated stand-alone prices. Lease liabilities are recognized the present value the fixed lease payments, reduced landlord incentives using discount rate based similarly secured borrowings available . Lease assets are recognized based the initial present value the fixed lease payments, reduced landlord incentives, plus any direct costs from executing the leases lease prepayments reclassified from “Other assets” upon lease commencement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized cost and amortized over the lesser their expected useful life the lease term. When have the option extend the lease term, terminate the lease before the contractual expiration date, purchase the leased asset, and reasonably certain that will exercise the option, consider these options determining the classification and measurement the lease. Our leases may include variable payments based measures that include changes price indices, market interest rates, the level sales physical store, which are expensed incurred. Costs associated with operating lease assets are recognized straight-line basis within operating expenses over the term the lease. Finance lease assets are amortized within operating expenses straight-line basis over the shorter the estimated useful lives the assets , the instance where title does not transfer the end the lease term, the lease term. The interest component finance lease included interest expense and recognized using the effective interest method over the lease term. establish assets and liabilities for the present value estimated future costs retire long-lived assets the termination expiration lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted the future value the estimated retirement costs. Financing Obligations record assets and liabilities for estimated construction costs under build- -suit lease arrangements when have control over the building during the construction period. continue control the building after the construction period, the arrangement classified financing obligation instead lease. The building depreciated over the shorter its useful life the term the obligation. not control the building after the construction period ends, the assets and liabilities for construction costs are derecognized, and classify the lease either operating finance. Goodwill evaluate goodwill for impairment annually more frequently when event occurs circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. testing goodwill for impairment, may elect utilize qualitative assessment evaluate whether more likely than not that the fair value reporting unit less than its carrying amount. our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment more likely than not, perform two-step impairment test. test goodwill for impairment under the two-step impairment test first comparing the book value net assets the fair value the reporting units. the fair value determined less than the book value qualitative factors indicate that more likely than not that goodwill impaired, second step performed compute the amount impairment the difference between the estimated fair value goodwill and the carrying value. estimate the fair value the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts future cash flows are based our best estimate future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. completed the required annual testing goodwill for impairment for all reporting units April , , and determined that goodwill impaired the fair value our reporting units substantially exceeded their book value. There were events that caused update our annual impairment test. See “Note — Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related acquired intangible assets, net accumulated amortization; video and music content, net accumulated amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority which are attributable collateralization bank guarantees and debt related our international operations; lease prepayments made prior lease commencement; and equity warrant assets. Digital Video and Music Content obtain video content, inclusive episodic television and movies, and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have wide range licensing provisions including both fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for specific video music title determinable reasonably estimable and the content available , recognize asset and corresponding liability for the amounts owed. reduce the liability payments are made and amortize the asset “Cost sales” accelerated basis, based estimated usage viewing patterns, straight-line basis. the licensing fee not determinable reasonably estimable, asset liability recorded and licensing costs are expensed incurred. also develop original video content for which the production costs are capitalized and amortized “Cost sales” predominantly accelerated basis that follows the viewing patterns associated with the content. The weighted average remaining life our capitalized video content years . Our produced and licensed video content primarily monetized together unit, referred film group, each major geography where offer Amazon Prime memberships. These film groups are evaluated for impairment whenever event occurs circumstances change indicating the fair value less than the carrying value. The total capitalized costs video, which primarily released content, and music December , and were $ billion and $ billion . Total video and music expense was $ billion and $ billion for the year ended December , and . Total video and music expense includes licensing and production costs associated with content offered within Amazon Prime memberships, and costs associated with digital subscriptions and sold rented content. Investments generally invest our excess cash AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities. Such investments are included “Cash and cash equivalents” “Marketable securities” the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Marketable debt securities are classified available-for-sale and reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. Equity-method investments are included within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets. Our share the earnings losses reported equity-method investees, amortization basis differences, and related gains losses, any, are classified “Equity - method investment activity, net tax” our consolidated statements operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values and for which not have the ability exercise significant influence are accounted for cost with adjustments for observable changes prices impairments and are classified “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets with adjustments recognized “Other income (expense), net” our consolidated statements operations. December , and , these investments had carrying value $ million and $ billion . Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are included “Marketable securities” our consolidated balance sheets and measured fair value with changes recognized “Other income (expense), net” our consolidated statement operations. periodically evaluate whether declines fair values our investments indicate impairment. For debt securities and equity-method investments, also evaluate whether declines fair value our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration the unrealized loss well our ability and intent hold the investment until forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, assess whether have plans sell the security more likely than not will required sell any investment before recovery its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include: quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions offers investee securities; credit quality debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value our investments; duration and severity the decline value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets may not recoverable. For long-lived assets used operations, including lease assets, impairment losses are only recorded the asset’ carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. measure the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed plan sell the asset, the asset available for sale its immediate condition, and the sale probable within one year the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Assets held for sale were not significant December , and . Accrued Expenses and Other Included “Accrued expenses and other” our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related leases and asset retirement obligations, payroll and related expenses, unredeemed gift cards, customer liabilities, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. December , and , our liabilities for payroll related expenses were $ billion and $ billion and our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards were $ billion and $ billion . reduce the liability for gift card when redeemed customer. The portion gift cards that not expect redeemed recognized based customer usage patterns. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments are received due advance performing our service obligations and recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates prepayments AWS services and Amazon Prime memberships. Our total unearned revenue December , was $ billion , which $ billion was recognized revenue during the year ended December , and our total unearned revenue December , was $ billion . Included “Other long-term liabilities” our consolidated balance sheets was $ billion and $ billion unearned revenue December , and . Additionally, have performance obligations, primarily related AWS, associated with commitments customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized our financial statements. For contracts with original terms that exceed one year, those commitments not yet recognized were $ billion December , . The weighted average remaining life our long-term contracts years . However, the amount and timing revenue recognition largely driven customer usage, which can extend beyond the original contractual term. Other Long-Term Liabilities Included “Other long-term liabilities” our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related deferred tax liabilities, financing obligations, asset retirement obligations, tax contingencies, and digital video and music content. Foreign Currency have internationally-focused stores for which the net sales generated, well most the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated local functional currencies. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these stores generally the same the local currency. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” separate component stockholders’ equity, and the “Foreign currency effect cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash,” our consolidated statements cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved are included “Other income (expense), net” our consolidated statements operations. connection with the settlement and remeasurement intercompany balances, recorded gains (losses) $ million , $( ) million , and $ million , , and . Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted May , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures enable users financial statements understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. adopted this ASU January , for all revenue contracts with our customers using the modified retrospective approach and increased retained earnings approximately $ million . The adjustment primarily relates the unredeemed portion our gift cards, which are now recognized over the expected customer usage period rather than waiting until gift cards expire when the likelihood redemption becomes remote. changed the recognition and classification Amazon Prime memberships, which are now accounted for single performance obligation and recognized ratably over the membership period service sales. Previously, Prime memberships were considered arrangements with multiple deliverables and were allocated among product sales and service sales. Other changes relate primarily the presentation revenue. Certain advertising services are now classified revenue rather than reduction cost sales, and sales apps, -app content, and certain digital media content are presented net basis. Prior year amounts have not been adjusted and continue reported accordance with our historic accounting policy. The impact applying this ASU for the year ended December , primarily resulted decrease product sales and increase service sales driven the reclassification Prime membership fees approximately $ billion . Service sales also increased approximately $ billion for the year ended December , due the reclassification certain advertising services. January , the FASB issued ASU that updates certain aspects recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure financial instruments. Under this ASU, certain equity investments are measured fair value with changes recognized net income. adopted this ASU with material impact our consolidated financial statements. February , the FASB issued ASU amending the accounting for leases, primarily requiring the recognition lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms more than twelve months our consolidated balance sheets. Under the new guidance, leases previously described capital lease obligations and finance lease obligations are now referred finance leases and financing obligations, respectively. adopted this ASU January , recording immaterial cumulative adjustment retained earnings rather than retrospectively adjusting prior periods. Prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue reported accordance with our historic accounting policies resulting balance sheet presentation that not comparable the prior period the first year adoption. The adoption this ASU resulted the recognition operating lease assets and liabilities approximately $ billion , which included the reclassification finance lease obligations operating leases $ billion . December , , amounts related finance lease obligations and construction liabilities totaled $ billion , which $ billion was derecognized for buildings that not control during the construction period and $ billion and $ billion were reclassified finance leases and operating leases, respectively. October , the FASB issued ASU amending the accounting for income taxes. The new guidance requires the recognition the income tax consequences intercompany asset transfer, other than transfers inventory, when the transfer occurs. For intercompany transfers inventory, the income tax effects will continue deferred until the inventory has been sold third party. adopted this ASU with increase approximately $ million retained earnings and deferred tax assets net valuation allowances. November , the FASB issued ASU amending the presentation restricted cash within the consolidated statements cash flows. The new guidance requires that restricted cash added cash and cash equivalents the consolidated statements cash flows. adopted this ASU retrospective basis with the following impacts our consolidated statements cash flows ( millions): Year Ended December , Previously Reported Adjustments Revised Operating activities $ , $ ( ) $ , Investing activities ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities , , Net change cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ $ $ , March , the FASB issued ASU amending the accounting for film costs, inclusive episodic television and movie costs. The new guidance aligns the accounting for production costs episodic television with that movies requiring production costs capitalized. Previously, only capitalized portion the production costs related our produced episodic television content. adopted this ASU January , and began capitalizing substantially all our production costs. Adoption this ASU resulted approximately $ billion incremental capitalized film costs classified “Other Assets” December , . Note — FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, and Marketable Securities December , and , our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities primarily consisted cash, AAA-rated money market funds, . and foreign government and agency securities, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded fair value. The following table summarizes, major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities that are measured fair value recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy ( millions): December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , Level securities: Money market funds , — — , Equity securities Level securities: Foreign government and agency securities — — . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate debt securities , ( ) , Asset-backed securities — ( ) Other fixed income securities — ( ) Equity securities $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) ( ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , Level securities: Money market funds , — — , Equity securities ( ) Level securities: Foreign government and agency securities , — — , . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate debt securities , ( ) , Asset-backed securities , ( ) , Other fixed income securities — Equity securities ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) ( ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , ___________________ ( ) The related unrealized gain (loss) recorded “Other income (expense), net” was $ million for the year ended December , . ( ) are required pledge otherwise restrict portion our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities collateral for real estate leases, amounts due third-party sellers certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters credit. classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with use restrictions less than twelve months “Accounts receivable, net and other” and twelve months longer non-current “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note — Commitments and Contingencies.” The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized sales available-for-sale fixed income marketable securities ( millions): Year Ended December , Realized gains $ $ $ Realized losses The following table summarizes the remaining contractual maturities our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities December , ( millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through ten years Due after ten years Total $ , $ , Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows Reconciliation The following table provides reconciliation the amount cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheets the total the same such amounts shown the consolidated statements cash flows ( millions): December , December , Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Restricted cash included accounts receivable, net and other Restricted cash included other assets Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash shown the consolidated statements cash flows $ , $ , Note — PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, cost, consisted the following ( millions): December , Gross property and equipment ( ): Land and buildings $ , $ , Equipment , , Other assets , , Construction progress , , Gross property and equipment , , Total accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) , , Total property and equipment, net $ , $ , __________________ ( ) Includes the original cost and accumulated depreciation fully-depreciated assets. Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion which includes amortization property and equipment acquired under finance leases $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion for , , and . Note — LEASES Gross assets acquired under finance leases, inclusive those where title transfers the end the lease, are recorded “Property and equipment, net” and were $ billion and $ billion December , and . Accumulated amortization associated with finance leases was $ billion and $ billion December , and . Lease cost recognized our consolidated statements operations summarized follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Operating lease cost ( ) $ , Finance lease cost: Amortization lease assets , Interest lease liabilities Finance lease cost , Variable lease cost Total lease cost $ , __________________ ( ) Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $ billion and $ billion for and . Other information about lease amounts recognized our consolidated financial statements summarized follows: December , Weighted-average remaining lease term – operating leases Weighted-average remaining lease term – finance leases Weighted-average discount rate – operating leases % Weighted-average discount rate – finance leases % December , , our lease liabilities were follows ( millions): Operating Leases Finance Leases Total Gross lease liabilities $ , $ , $ , Less: imputed interest ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Present value lease liabilities , , , Less: current portion lease liabilities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total long-term lease liabilities $ , $ , $ , Note — ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquisition Activity May , , acquired Souq Group Ltd., -commerce company, for approximately $ million , net cash acquired, and August , , acquired Whole Foods Market, grocery store chain, for approximately $ billion , net cash acquired. Both acquisitions are intended expand our retail presence. During , also acquired certain other companies for aggregate purchase price $ million . The primary reason for our other acquisitions was acquire technologies and know-how enable Amazon serve customers more effectively. Acquisition Activity April , , acquired Ring Inc. (“Ring”) for cash consideration approximately $ million , net cash acquired, and September , , acquired PillPack, Inc. (“PillPack”) for cash consideration approximately $ million , net cash acquired, expand our product and service offerings. During , also acquired certain other companies for aggregate purchase price $ million . The primary reason for our other acquisitions was acquire technologies and know-how enable Amazon serve customers more effectively. Acquisition Activity During , acquired certain companies for aggregate purchase price $ million . The primary reason for these acquisitions, none which were individually material our consolidated financial statements, was acquire technologies and know-how enable Amazon serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed incurred and were not significant. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects acquisitions, individually and the aggregate, were not material our consolidated results operations. Purchase Price Allocation The aggregate purchase price these acquisitions was allocated follows ( millions): December , Purchase Price Cash paid, net cash acquired $ , $ , $ Indemnification holdback $ , $ , $ Allocation Goodwill $ , $ , $ Intangible assets ( ): Marketing-related , Contract-based — Technology-based Customer-related , Property and equipment , Deferred tax assets Other assets acquired , Long-term debt ( , ) ( ) ( ) Deferred tax liabilities ( ) ( ) ( ) Other liabilities assumed ( , ) ( ) ( ) $ , $ , $ ___________________ ( ) Intangible assets acquired , , and have estimated useful lives between one and twenty-five years , two and seven years , and two and seven years , with weighted-average amortization periods twenty-one years , six years , and five years . determined the estimated fair value identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily using the income approach. These assets are included within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized operating expenses straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill The goodwill the acquired companies primarily related expected improvements technology performance and functionality, well sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together with certain intangible assets that not qualify for separate recognition. The goodwill the acquired companies generally not deductible for tax purposes. The following summarizes our goodwill activity and segment ( millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January , $ , $ , $ , $ , New acquisitions ( ) , , Other adjustments ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Goodwill - December , , , , , New acquisitions Other adjustments ( ) Goodwill - December , $ , $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Primarily includes the acquisitions Ring and PillPack the North America segment. ( ) Primarily includes changes foreign exchange rates. Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets, consist the following ( millions): December , Acquired Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Acquired Intangibles, Net Weighted Average Life Remaining Marketing-related $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Contract-based , ( ) , , ( ) , Technology- and content-based ( ) , ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Acquired intangibles ( ) $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , ___________________ ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization fully-amortized intangibles. ( ) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives between one and twenty-five years . Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . Expected future amortization expense acquired intangible assets December , follows ( millions): Year Ended December , $ Thereafter , $ , Note — DEBT December , , had $ billion unsecured senior notes outstanding (the “Notes”). December , and , the net unamortized discount and debt issuance costs the Notes was $ million . also have other long-term debt with carrying amount, including the current portion and borrowings under our credit facility, $ million and $ billion December , and . The face value our total long-term debt obligations follows ( millions): December , % Notes due December , , — % Notes due August , ( ) , , % Notes due December , ( ) , , % Notes due November , ( ) , , % Notes due February , ( ) , , % Notes due August , ( ) , , % Notes due December , ( ) , , % Notes due December , ( ) , , % Notes due August , ( ) , , % Notes due December , ( ) , , % Notes due August , ( ) , , % Notes due December , ( ) , , % Notes due August , ( ) , , % Notes due August , ( ) , , Credit Facility Other long-term debt Total debt , , Less current portion long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) Face value long-term debt $ , $ , _____________________________ ( ) Issued November , effective interest rate the Notes was % . ( ) Issued December , effective interest rates the , , , and Notes were % , % , % , and % . ( ) Issued August , effective interest rates the , , , , , , and Notes were % , % , % , % , % , % , and % . ( ) Consists $ million Notes issued December exchange for notes assumed connection with the acquisition Whole Foods Market and $ million Notes issued Whole Foods Market that did not participate our December exchange offer. The effective interest rate the Notes was % . Interest the Notes issued payable semi-annually arrears May and November . Interest the Notes issued payable semi-annually arrears June and December . Interest the Notes issued payable semi-annually arrears February and August. Interest the Notes payable semi-annually arrears June and December. may redeem the Notes any time whole, from time time, part specified redemption prices. are not subject any financial covenants under the Notes. The proceeds from the November and the December Notes were used for general corporate purposes. The proceeds from the August Notes were used fund the consideration for the acquisition Whole Foods Market, repay notes due , and for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value the Notes was approximately $ billion and $ billion December , and , which based quoted prices for our debt those dates. October , entered into $ million secured revolving credit facility with lender that secured certain seller receivables , which subsequently increased $ million and may from time time increase the future subject lender approval (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility available until October , bears interest the London interbank offered rate (“ LIBOR ”) plus % , and has commitment fee % the undrawn portion. There were $ million and $ million borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility December , and , which had weighted-average interest rate % and % December , and . December , and , have pledged $ million and $ million our cash and seller receivables collateral for debt related our Credit Facility. The estimated fair value the Credit Facility, which based Level inputs, approximated its carrying value December , and . The other debt, including the current portion, had weighted-average interest rate % and % December , and . used the net proceeds from the issuance this debt primarily fund certain business operations. The estimated fair value the other long-term debt, which based Level inputs, approximated its carrying value December , and . December , , future principal payments for our total debt were follows ( millions): Year Ended December , $ , , , , , Thereafter , $ , April , established commercial paper program (the “Commercial Paper Program”) under which may from time time issue unsecured commercial paper total $ billion any time, with individual maturities that may vary but will not exceed days from the date issue. There were borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program December , and . April , connection with our Commercial Paper Program, amended and restated our unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with syndicate lenders increase our borrowing capacity thereunder $ billion . amended and restated, the Credit Agreement has term three years , but may extended for three additional one -year terms approved the lenders. The interest rate applicable outstanding balances under the amended and restated Credit Agreement LIBOR plus % , with commitment fee % the undrawn portion the credit facility. There were borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement December , and . Note — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments have entered into non-cancellable operating and finance leases and financing obligations for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, data center, physical store, and renewable energy facilities. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally cancellable, December , ( millions): Year Ended December , Thereafter Total Debt principal and interest $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating lease liabilities , , , , , , , Finance lease liabilities, including interest , , , , , , Financing obligations, including interest , , Unconditional purchase obligations ( ) , , , , , , , Other commitments ( )( ) , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related certain products offered our Whole Foods Market stores and long-term agreements acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected the consolidated balance sheets. For those digital media content agreements with variable terms, not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and pricing the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely the option the content provider are included the extent such commitments are fixed minimum amount specified. ( ) Includes the estimated timing and amounts payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build- -suit lease arrangements and lease arrangements prior the lease commencement date and digital media content liabilities associated with long-term digital media content assets with initial terms greater than one year. ( ) Excludes approximately $ billion accrued tax contingencies for which cannot make reasonably reliable estimate the amount and period payment, any. Pledged Assets December , and , have pledged otherwise restricted $ million and $ million our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment collateral for real estate leases, amounts due third-party sellers certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters credit. Additionally, have pledged our cash and seller receivables for debt related our Credit Facility. See “Note — Debt.” Suppliers During , vendor accounted for % more our purchases. generally not have long-term contracts arrangements with our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. Other Contingencies , determined that processed and delivered orders consumer products for certain individuals and entities located outside Iran covered the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act other United States sanctions and export control laws. The consumer products included books, music, other media, apparel, home and kitchen, health and beauty, jewelry, office, consumer electronics, software, lawn and patio, grocery, and automotive products. Our review ongoing and have voluntarily reported these orders the United States Treasury Department’ Office Foreign Assets Control and the United States Department Commerce’ Bureau Industry and Security. intend cooperate fully with OFAC and BIS with respect their review, which may result the imposition penalties. For additional information, see Item Part , “Other Information — Disclosure Pursuant Section ( ) the Exchange Act.” are subject claims related various indirect taxes (such sales, value added, consumption, service, and similar taxes), including jurisdictions which already collect and remit such taxes. the relevant taxing authorities were successfully pursue these claims, could subject significant additional tax liabilities. For example, June , the State South Carolina issued assessment for uncollected sales and use taxes for the period from January March , including interest and penalties. South Carolina alleging that should have collected sales and use taxes transactions our third-party sellers. September , the South Carolina Administrative Law Court ruled favor the Department Revenue and have appealed the decision the state Court Appeals. believe the assessment without merit and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. other tax authorities were successfully seek additional adjustments similar nature, could subject significant additional tax liabilities. Legal Proceedings The Company involved from time time claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the following: Beginning August , number complaints were filed alleging, among other things, that Amazon com, Inc. and several its subsidiaries failed compensate hourly workers for time spent waiting security lines and otherwise violated federal and state wage and hour statutes and common law. August , Busk . Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. and Amazon com, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the District Nevada, and Vance . Amazon com, Inc., Zappos com Inc., another affiliate Amazon com, Inc., and Kelly Services, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Western District Kentucky. September , Allison . Amazon com, Inc. and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, and Johnson . Amazon com, Inc. and affiliate Amazon com, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Western District Kentucky. October , Davis . Amazon com, Inc., affiliate Amazon com, Inc., and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Middle District Tennessee. The plaintiffs variously purport represent nationwide class certain current and former employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act and state-law-based subclasses for certain current and former employees states including Arizona, California, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Kentucky, Washington, and Nevada, and one complaint asserts nationwide breach contract and unjust enrichment claims. The complaints seek unspecified amount damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. have been named several other similar cases. December , the Supreme Court ruled Busk that time spent waiting for and undergoing security screening not compensable working time under the federal wage and hour statute. February , the courts those actions alleging only federal law claims entered stipulated orders dismissing those actions without prejudice. March , the United States District Court for the Western District Kentucky dismissed the Vance case with prejudice. April , the plaintiffs appealed the district court’ judgment the United States Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit. March , the court appeals affirmed the district court’ decision. June , the United States District Court for the Western District Kentucky dismissed the Busk and Saldana cases with prejudice. dispute any remaining allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously these matters. March , Zitovault, LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc., Amazon com, LLC, Amazon Web Services, Inc., and Amazon Web Services, LLC for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges that Elastic Compute Cloud, Virtual Private Cloud, Elastic Load Balancing, Auto-Scaling, and Elastic Beanstalk infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “System and Method for Maintaining Number Simultaneous Cryptographic Sessions Using Distributed Computing Environment.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. January , the case was transferred the United States District Court for the Western District Washington. June , the case was stayed pending resolution review petition filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. January , the stay the case was lifted following resolution the review petition. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. November , Eolas Technologies, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use “interactive features” www amazon com, including “search suggestions and search results,” infringes . Patent . , , , entitled “Distributed Hypermedia Method and System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display Embedded Objects Within Hypermedia Document.” The complaint sought judgment infringement together with costs and attorneys’ fees. February , Eolas filed amended complaint seeking, among other things, unspecified amount damages. February , Eolas alleged its damages report that the event finding liability Amazon could subject $ - $ million damages. April , the case was transferred the United States District Court for the Northern District California. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. October , SRC Labs, LLC and Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe filed complaint for patent infringement against Amazon Web Services, Inc., Amazon com, Inc., and VADATA, Inc. the United States District Court for the Eastern District Virginia. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain AWS EC2 Instances infringe . Patent Nos. , , , entitled “System and method for accelerating web site access and processing utilizing computer system incorporating reconfigurable processors operating under single operating system image”; , , , entitled “System and method enhancing efficiency and utilization memory bandwidth reconfigurable hardware”; , , and , , , both entitled “Multi-adaptive processing systems and techniques for enhancing parallelism and performance computational functions”; and , , , entitled “System and method for retaining DRAM data when reprogramming reconfigurable devices with DRAM memory controllers.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, interest, and compulsory -going royalty. February , the Virginia district court transferred the case the United States District Court for the Western District Washington. November , the case was stayed pending resolution eight review petitions filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office relating the ‘ , ‘ , and ‘ patents. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. May , Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and Dynamic Advances LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. the United States District Court for the Northern District New York. The complaint alleges, among other things, that “Alexa Voice Software and Alexa enabled devices” infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “Natural Language Interface Using Constrained Intermediate Dictionary Results.” The complaint seeks injunction, unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, ongoing royalty, pre- and post-judgment interest, attorneys’ fees, and costs. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. June , VoIP-Pal com, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon Technologies, Inc. and Amazon com, Inc. the United States District Court for the District Nevada. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the Alexa calling and messaging system, the Alexa app, and Echo, Tap, and Fire devices with Alexa support infringe . Patent Nos. , , ; , , ; , , ; and , , , all entitled “Producing Routing Messages For Voice Over Communications.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. November , the case was transferred the United States District Court for the Northern District California. November , the District Court entered judgment invalidating all asserted claims . Patent Nos. , , ; , , ; , , ; and , , . dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. December , Kove , Inc. filed complaint against Amazon Web Services, Inc. the United States District Court for the Northern District Illinois. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon and DynamoDB infringe . Patent Nos. , , and , , , both entitled “Network Distributed Tracking Wire Transfer Protocol,” and , , , entitled “Method And Apparatus For Managing Location Information Network Separate From The Data Which The Location Information Pertains.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. January , Saint Lawrence Communications, LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. and Amazon com LLC the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that voice encoding functionality Amazon devices infringes . Patent Nos. , , , entitled “Periodicity Enhancement Decoding Wideband Signals”; , , , entitled “Perceptual Weighting Device And Method For Efficient Coding Wideband Signals”; , , , entitled “High Frequency Content Recovering Method And Device For Over-Sampled Synthesized Wideband Signal”; , , , entitled “Gain-Smoothing Wideband Speech And Audio Signal Decoder”; and , , , entitled “Method And Device For Adaptive Bandwidth Pitch Search Coding Wideband Signals.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. April , Vocalife LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. and Amazon com LLC the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Echo devices infringe . Patent . RE47, , entitled “Microphone Array System.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unspecified amount damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. May , Neodron Ltd. filed petition with the United States International Trade Commission requesting that the International Trade Commission commence investigation into the sale Amazon Fire tablets and certain Dell, Hewlett Packard, Lenovo, Microsoft, Motorola, and Samsung devices (the “accused devices”). Neodron’ petition alleges that the accused devices infringe least one . Patent Nos. , , , entitled “Capacitive Position Sensor”; , , , entitled “Capacitive Keyboard With Position-Dependent Reduced Keying Ambiguity”; , , , entitled “Capacitive Keyboard With Non-Locking Reduced Keying Ambiguity”; and , , , entitled “Enhanced Touch Detection Methods.” Neodron seeking limited exclusion order preventing the importation the accused devices into the United States. December , Neodron withdrew its infringement allegations against Amazon with regard . Patent . , , . May , Neodron also filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. the United States District Court for the Western District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon’ Fire tablet infringes . Patent Nos. , , , entitled “Capacitive Position Sensor,” and , , , entitled “Enhanced Touch Detection Methods.” The May complaint seeks unspecified amount damages and interest, permanent injunction, and enhanced damages. June , Neodron filed second complaint against Amazon com, Inc. the United States District Court for the Western District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon’ Fire tablet infringes . Patent Nos. , , , entitled “Capacitive Touch Screen With Noise Suppression”; , , , entitled “Noise Reduction Capacitive Touch Sensors”; and , , , entitled “Capacitive Sensor.” The June complaint seeks unspecified amount damages and interest, permanent injunction, and enhanced damages. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously these matters. The outcomes our legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, subject significant uncertainties, and could material our operating results and cash flows for particular period. addition, for the matters disclosed above that not include estimate the amount loss range losses, such estimate not possible immaterial, and may unable estimate the possible loss range losses that could potentially result from the application non-monetary remedies. See also “Note — Income Taxes.” Note — STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock have authorized million shares $ par value preferred stock. preferred stock was outstanding for any year presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled million , million , and million , December , , , and . These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, including those awards estimate will forfeited. Stock Repurchase Activity February , the Board Directors authorized program repurchase $ billion our common stock, with fixed expiration. There were repurchases common stock , , . Stock Award Plans Employees vest restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years . Stock Award Activity Stock-based compensation expense follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Cost sales $ $ $ Fulfillment , , Technology and content , , , Marketing , General and administrative Total stock-based compensation expense ( ) $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) The related tax benefits were $ million , $ billion , and $ billion for , , and . The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity ( millions): Number Units Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Outstanding January , $ Units granted Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) Outstanding December , Units granted , Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) Outstanding December , , Units granted , Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) , Outstanding December , , Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units December , , follows ( millions): Year Ended Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting — restricted stock units — December , , there was $ billion net unrecognized compensation cost related unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation recognized accelerated basis with approximately half the compensation expected expensed the next twelve months, and has weighted-average recognition period years. The estimated forfeiture rate December , , , and was % , % , and % . Changes our estimates and assumptions relating forfeitures may cause realize material changes stock-based compensation expense the future. During , , and , the fair value restricted stock units that vested was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . Common Stock Available for Future Issuance December , , common stock available for future issuance employees million shares. Note — INCOME TAXES , , and , recorded net tax provisions $ million , $ billion , and $ billion . Tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions are reducing our . taxable income. Cash taxes paid, net refunds, were $ million , $ billion , and $ million for , , and . The . Tax Act was signed into law December , . The . Tax Act significantly revised the . corporate income tax , among other things, lowering the statutory corporate tax rate from % %, eliminating certain deductions, imposing mandatory one-time tax accumulated earnings foreign subsidiaries, introducing new tax regimes, and changing how foreign earnings are subject . tax. The . Tax Act also enhanced and extended accelerated depreciation deductions allowing full expensing qualified property, primarily equipment, through . reasonably estimated the effects the . Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts our financial statements December , . recorded provisional tax benefit for the impact the . Tax Act approximately $ million . This amount was primarily comprised the remeasurement federal net deferred tax liabilities resulting from the permanent reduction the . statutory corporate tax rate % from %, after taking into account the mandatory one-time tax the accumulated earnings our foreign subsidiaries. The amount this one-time tax was not material. , completed our determination the accounting implications the . Tax Act. The components the provision for income taxes, net are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , . Federal: Current $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Deferred ( ) Total ( ) , . State: Current Deferred ( ) Total International: Current , Deferred ( ) ( ) Total , Provision for income taxes, net $ $ , $ , . and international components income before income taxes are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , . $ , $ , $ , International ( , ) Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Income taxes computed the federal statutory rate ( ) $ , $ , $ , Effect : Tax impact foreign earnings , State taxes, net federal benefits Tax credits ( ) ( ) ( ) Stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( , ) ( ) Impact . Tax Act ( ) ( ) — Other, net Total $ $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) The . Tax Act reduced the . federal statutory rate from % % beginning . ( ) Includes non-deductible stock-based compensation and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Our tax provision includes $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation for , , and . Our provision for income taxes was higher than primarily due increase . pre-tax income and the one-time provisional tax benefit the . Tax Act recognized . This was partially offset the reduction the . federal statutory tax rate , decline the proportion foreign losses for which may not realize tax benefit and increase excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. regularly assess whether more likely than not that will realize our deferred tax assets each taxing jurisdiction which operate. performing this assessment with respect each jurisdiction, review all available evidence, including recent cumulative loss experience and expectations future earnings, capital gains, and investment such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. , recognized estimated charge tax expense $ million record valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets Luxembourg. Our provision for income taxes was higher than primarily due increase . pre-tax income, decline excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and the one-time provisional tax benefit the . Tax Act recognized . Certain foreign subsidiary earnings are subject . taxation under the . Tax Act, which also repeals . taxation the subsequent repatriation those earnings. intend invest substantially all our foreign subsidiary earnings, well our capital our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside the . those jurisdictions which would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation such amounts. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are follows ( millions): December , Deferred tax assets ( ): Loss carryforwards . - Federal States Loss carryforwards - Foreign , , Accrued liabilities, reserves, and other expenses , , Stock-based compensation , , Depreciation and amortization , , Operating lease liabilities — , Other items Tax credits Total gross deferred tax assets , , Less valuation allowances ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowances , , Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Operating lease assets — ( , ) Other items ( ) ( ) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities), net valuation allowances $ ( ) $ ( , ) ___________________ ( ) Deferred tax assets are presented after tax effects and net tax contingencies. ( ) Relates primarily deferred tax assets that would only realizable upon the generation net income certain foreign taxing jurisdictions. Our valuation allowances primarily relate foreign deferred tax assets, including substantially all our foreign net operating loss carryforwards December , . Our foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes December , were approximately $ billion before tax effects and certain these amounts are subject annual limitations under applicable tax law. not utilized, portion these losses will begin expire . December , , our federal tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $ billion . not utilized, portion the tax credit carryforwards will begin expire . Tax Contingencies are subject income taxes the . (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based estimates whether, and the extent which, additional taxes will due. These reserves are established when believe that certain positions might challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. adjust these reserves light changing facts and circumstances, such the outcome tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact reserve provisions and changes reserves that are considered appropriate. The reconciliation our tax contingencies follows ( millions): December , Gross tax contingencies – January $ , $ , $ , Gross increases tax positions prior periods Gross decreases tax positions prior periods ( ) ( ) ( ) Gross increases current period tax positions , Settlements with tax authorities — ( ) ( ) Lapse statute limitations ( ) ( ) ( ) Gross tax contingencies – December ( ) $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) December , , had approximately $ billion accrued tax contingencies which $ billion , fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. December , and , had accrued interest and penalties, net federal income tax benefit, related tax contingencies $ million and $ million . Interest and penalties, net federal income tax benefit, recognized for the years ended December , , , and was $ million , $ million , and $ million . are under examination, may subject examination, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the calendar year and thereafter. These examinations may lead ordinary course adjustments proposed adjustments our taxes our net operating losses with respect years under examination well subsequent periods. October , the European Commission opened formal investigation examine whether decisions the tax authorities Luxembourg with regard the corporate income tax paid certain our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules state aid. October , , the European Commission announced its decision that determinations the tax authorities Luxembourg did not comply with European Union rules state aid. Based that decision the European Commission announced estimated recovery amount approximately € million , plus interest, for the period May through June , and ordered Luxembourg tax authorities calculate the actual amount additional taxes subject recovery. Luxembourg computed initial recovery amount, consistent with the European Commission’ decision, that deposited into escrow March , subject adjustment pending conclusion all appeals. December , Luxembourg appealed the European Commission’ decision. May , appealed. believe the European Commission’ decision without merit and will continue defend ourselves vigorously this matter. are also subject taxation various states and other foreign jurisdictions including China, Germany, India, Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. are under, may subject , audit examination and additional assessments the relevant authorities respect these particular jurisdictions primarily for and thereafter. Changes state, federal, and foreign tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. The timing the resolution income tax examinations highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, any, upon resolution the issues raised the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. reasonably possible that within the next twelve months will receive additional assessments various tax authorities possibly reach resolution income tax examinations one more jurisdictions. These assessments settlements could result changes our contingencies related positions tax filings years through . The actual amount any change could vary significantly depending the ultimate timing and nature any settlements. cannot currently provide estimate the range possible outcomes. Note — SEGMENT INFORMATION have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. allocate segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Technology and content,” “Marketing,” and “General and administrative” based usage, which generally reflected the segment which the costs are incurred. The majority technology infrastructure costs are allocated the AWS segment based usage. The majority the remaining non-infrastructure technology costs are incurred the . and are allocated our North America segment. There are internal revenue transactions between our reportable segments. These segments reflect the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’ business performance and manages its operations. North America The North America segment primarily consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused online and physical stores. This segment includes export sales from these online stores. International The International segment primarily consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally-focused online stores. This segment includes export sales from these internationally-focused online stores (including export sales from these online stores customers the ., Mexico, and Canada), but excludes export sales from our North America-focused online stores. AWS The AWS segment consists amounts earned from global sales compute, storage, database, and other service offerings for start-ups, enterprises, government agencies, and academic institutions. Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income (loss) follows ( millions): Year Ended December , North America Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses , , , Operating income $ , $ , $ , International Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses , , , Operating income (loss) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) AWS Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses , , , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Consolidated Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Total non-operating income (expense) ( ) ( , ) ( ) Provision for income taxes ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Equity-method investment activity, net tax ( ) ( ) Net income $ , $ , $ , Net sales groups similar products and services, which also have similar economic characteristics, follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Net Sales: Online stores ( ) $ , $ , $ , Physical stores ( ) , , , Third-party seller services ( ) , , , Subscription services ( ) , , , AWS , , , Other ( ) , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Includes product sales and digital media content where record revenue gross. leverage our retail infrastructure offer wide selection consumable and durable goods that includes media products available both physical and digital format, such books, music, videos, games, and software. These product sales include digital products sold transactional basis. Digital product subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing usage rights are included “Subscription services.” ( ) Includes product sales where our customers physically select items store. Sales from customers who order goods online for delivery pickup our physical stores are included “Online stores.” ( ) Includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, and other third-party seller services. ( ) Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships, well audiobook, digital video, digital music, -book, and other non-AWS subscription services. ( ) Primarily includes sales advertising services, well sales related our other service offerings. Net sales generated from our internationally-focused online stores are denominated local functional currencies. Revenues are translated average rates prevailing throughout the period. Net sales attributed countries that represent significant portion consolidated net sales are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , United States $ , $ , $ , Germany , , , United Kingdom , , , Japan , , , Rest world , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Total segment assets exclude corporate assets, such cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, other long-term investments, corporate facilities, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and tax assets. Technology infrastructure assets are allocated among the segments based usage, with the majority allocated the AWS segment. Total segment assets reconciled consolidated amounts are follows ( millions): December , North America ( ) $ , $ , $ , International ( ) , , , AWS ( ) , , , Corporate , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) North America and International segment assets primarily consist property and equipment, inventory, and accounts receivable. ( ) AWS segment assets primarily consist property and equipment and accounts receivable. Property and equipment, net segment follows ( millions): December , North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , AWS , , , Corporate , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Total net additions property and equipment segment are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , North America ( ) $ , $ , $ , International ( ) , , , AWS ( ) , , , Corporate , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Includes property and equipment added under finance leases $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and , and under financing obligations $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . ( ) Includes property and equipment added under finance leases $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and , and under financing obligations $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . . property and equipment, net was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , , and , and non- . property and equipment, net was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . Except for the ., property and equipment, net, any single country was less than % consolidated property and equipment, net. Depreciation and amortization expense, including other corporate property and equipment depreciation and amortization expense, are allocated all segments based usage. Total depreciation and amortization expense, segment, follows ( millions): Year Ended December , North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , AWS , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Note — QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter and . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are follows ( millions, except per share data): Year Ended December , ( ) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , Income before income taxes , , , , Provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted Year Ended December , ( ) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , Income before income taxes , , , , Provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted ___________________ ( ) The sum quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due the effects rounding and changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures carried out evaluation required the Securities Exchange Act (the “ Act”), under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act, December , . Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, December , , our disclosure controls and procedures were effective provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the reports that file submit under the Act recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified the SEC’ rules and forms and provide reasonable assurance that such information accumulated and communicated our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management’ Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting December , based criteria established Internal Control — Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. result this assessment, management concluded that, December , , our internal control over financial reporting was effective providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young has independently assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting and its report included below. Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December , that materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations Controls Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed provide reasonable assurance achieving their objectives specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our disclosure controls and procedures our internal control over financial reporting will prevent detect all error and fraud. Any control system, matter how well designed and operated, based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will met. Further, evaluation controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due error fraud will not occur that all control issues and instances fraud, any, within the Company have been detected. Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Amazon com, Inc. Opinion Internal Control Over Financial Reporting have audited Amazon com, Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (the COSO criteria). our opinion, Amazon com, Inc. (the Company) maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets the Company December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , and the related notes and our report dated January , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion The Company’ management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management’ Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based our audit. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations Internal Control Over Financial Reporting company’ internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. / / Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January , ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information Disclosure Pursuant Section ( ) the Exchange Act determined that, between January and December , processed and delivered orders consumer products for certain individuals and entities located outside Iran covered the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act (“ITRA”), addition those have previously disclosed, follows: consumer products valued approximately $ , for individuals who may have been acting for Iranian embassies and diplomatic organizations located countries other than Iran; consumer products valued approximately $ for individual designated under Executive Order ; consumer products valued approximately $ , for individuals who may have been acting for seven entities owned controlled the Iranian government; and consumer products valued approximately $ , for individuals who may have been acting for five entities designated under Executive Order Executive Order , three which are owned controlled the Iranian Government. The consumer products included books, other media, apparel, home and kitchen, jewelry, health and beauty, office, toys, consumer electronics, lawn and patio, automotive, software, grocery, and pet products. addition, the information provided pursuant Section ( ) the Exchange Act Item Part the Company’ Quarterly Reports - for the quarters ended , , and hereby incorporated reference such reports. are unable accurately calculate the net profit attributable these transactions. not plan continue selling these accounts the future. Our review ongoing and are enhancing our processes designed identify transactions associated with individuals and entities covered the ITRA. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part “Business — Information About Our Executive Officers.” Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors and any material changes the process which security holders may recommend nominees the Board Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating our Code Business Conduct and Ethics and, the extent applicable, compliance with Section ( ) the Act set forth our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. the extent permissible under Nasdaq rules, intend disclose amendments our Code Business Conduct and Ethics, well waivers the provisions thereof, our investor relations website under the heading “Corporate Governance” amazon com . ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Comprehensive Income for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Stockholders’ Equity for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: All schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, because not required. ( ) Index Exhibits See exhibits listed under Part ( ) below. ( ) Exhibits: Exhibit Number Description † † † † † † † The following financial statements from the Company’ Annual Report Form - for the year ended December , , formatted XBRL: ( ) Consolidated Statements Cash Flows, ( ) Consolidated Statements Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statements Comprehensive Income, ( ) Consolidated Balance Sheets, ( ) Consolidated Statements Stockholders’ Equity, and ( ) Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, tagged blocks text and including detailed tags. permitted Item ( )( )(iii)( ) Regulation - , the Company has not filed with this Annual Report Form - certain instruments defining the rights holders long-term debt the Company and its subsidiaries because the total amount securities authorized thereunder does not exceed percent the total assets the Company and its subsidiaries consolidated basis. The Company agrees furnish copy such agreements the Commission upon request. The cover page from the Company’ Annual Report Form - for the year ended December , , formatted iXBRL (included Exhibit ). __________________ † Executive Compensation Plan Agreement. ', 'item 16. ': 'Form - Summary None. '}