{'item 1. ': 'Business General Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" "Microsoft") was founded partnership and incorporated . Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports wide range software products for multitude computing devices. Microsoft software includes scalable operating systems for servers, personal computers (PCs), and intelligent devices; server applications for client server environments; knowledge worker productivity applications; and software development tools. The Company\' online efforts include the MSN( ) network Internet products and services and alliances with companies involved with broadband access and various forms digital interactivity. Microsoft also licenses consumer software programs; sells hardware devices; provides consulting services; trains and certifies system integrators; and researches and develops advanced technologies for future software products. Microsoft\' business strategy emphasizes the development broad line software products for information technology ( ) professionals, knowledge workers, developers, and consumers, marketed through multiple channels distribution. The Company divided into three main areas: the Business Divisions, the Sales, Marketing, and Support Group, and the Operations Group. The Business Divisions work close partnership order create powerful software services and solutions built around the Internet, Windows, and new devices. Each division responsible for the product planning, development, strategy, and some cases, marketing strategies for their respective customer segments. The product segments, based these business divisions, are the Windows( ) Platforms segment, the Business Productivity Applications and Developer segment, and the Consumer and Other segment. The Windows Platforms segment contains the Windows Division and the Windows Digital Media Division. The Windows Division develops and server platforms required run applications and services and deliver the connectivity, management services and infrastructure for all types users. The Windows Division builds platforms for enterprise, dotcoms, small businesses, and consumers. The Windows Digital Media Division develops digital media technology and services for Windows platforms available across all types devices, networks, and services. The Productivity Applications and Developer segment has two primary divisions, the Business Productivity Group and the Developer Group. The Business Productivity Group creates desktop and server software applications and solutions for the knowledge workers and small businesses. The Developer Group builds architecture and development our tools and related platform technologies for software developers. The Consumer and Other segment includes the Consumer Group. The Consumer Group provides Internet services and creates and markets productivity programs, learning and entertainment products, and hardware peripherals for consumers. For financial reporting, revenue from Microsoft Press, consulting, and certification system integrators included this segment. See notes financial statements for financial information regarding segment reporting. Microsoft has research lab dedicated creating new technology and converting problems into tangible solutions that Microsoft developers can incorporate into products meet customers\' needs. The Sales, Marketing, and Support Group responsible for building long- term business relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), enterprises, small- and medium-sized businesses, application developers, educational institutions, and consumers. Enterprises are offered tailored license programs, enterprise-wide support, consulting services, and other specialized services. The group contains the Marketing Division, which responsible for domestic execution integrated marketing campaigns and similar worldwide initiatives; and developing expertise public relations, advertising, customer loyalty, research, and events. The group also manages the channels that serve customers working with OEMs, distributors, and resellers. addition the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales organizations: the South Pacific and Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; and Asia. The Sales, Marketing, and Support group supports the Company\' products with technical support for end users, developers, and departments organizations. The Operations Group responsible for managing business operations and overall business planning. This includes the process manufacturing and delivering finished goods and licenses; corporate functions such finance, administration, human resources, and legal. Products Windows Platforms The Windows Platforms segment responsible for the development and server platforms, including the Microsoft Windows and Windows operating systems. The segment also responsible for developing the Microsoft Internet Explorer browsing software and Microsoft Windows Media( ) Technologies. operating systems perform variety functions, such allocating computer memory, scheduling applications software execution, managing information and communication flow among the various components, and enabling end users access files and information from variety sources. The Windows operating system for servers enterprise-wide platform for building and deploying distributed applications for networked PCs. The Windows Platforms segment also provides products for developing, running, and managing Internet and intranet applications and content. Windows Millennium Edition. The latest version the Windows operating system, Windows Millennium Edition ( ) operating system designed specifically for home users manage digital photos and music, work with video, create home network, and communicate with other consumers. Windows was released September . Windows . The successor Windows , Windows personal computer operating system that provides Web-oriented user interface, better system performance along with easier system diagnostics and maintenance. Windows supports graphics, sound, and multimedia technologies and provides the ability easily add and remove peripheral devices and support for Universal Serial Bus (USB). Windows was released June . Windows Professional. The successor Windows Workstation, Windows Professional operating system combined features create mainstream operating system for desktop and notebook computing all organizations. Windows Professional contains the enhanced business features Windows such Plug and Play, easy- -use user interface, and power management and integrated the strengths Windows Workstation including standards-based security, manageability, and reliability. Windows Professional was released February . Windows Workstation. fully integrated, multitasking -bit operating system, Windows Workstation provides security, robustness, and portability. Windows Workstation designed for mission-critical computing and provides the same features and applications programming interfaces (APIs) for Intel and Alpha AXP microprocessors. Microsoft Windows Workstation combines the Windows operating system interface and usability features with the reliability and security Windows for the business environment. Windows Server, Advanced Server, and Datacenter Server. Windows Server family builds the Windows technology, integrating standards-based directory, Web, application, communications, file and print services with high reliability, efficient management, and support for networking hardware provide the foundation for integrating with the Internet. Windows Server multipurpose network operating system for businesses all sizes. Windows Advanced Server operating system ideal for -commerce and line- -business applications and provides enhanced performance and scalability through SMP and extended memory support. Windows Datacenter Server operating system built for large-scale line- -business and enterprise dotcom backend usage and supports server consolidation and enhanced scalability. Windows Server and Advanced Server were released February and Windows Datacenter Server was released September . Windows Server. Windows Server operating system foundation for both server applications and file and print sharing, with network management features, administration tools, security, and high availability. Windows Server provides scalable platform for business critical applications and databases, connectivity, system management, and electronic mail ( -mail) servers. The operating system integrates Web services such Microsoft Internet Information Server, service used manage intranet and Internet functionality, and Microsoft FrontPage( ) Web site creation and management tool. Windows Server, Terminal Server Edition, extension the Windows Server, offers the application support the Windows operating system platform with the centrally managed environment the mainframe with terminal. Windows Server Enterprise Edition provides the means for building and deploying large-scale distributed applications for large and mission- critical servers featuring comprehensive clustering for scalability and availability. Other Servers. Microsoft Proxy Server creates single, secure gateway the Internet; Microsoft SNA Server provides connectivity host data and applications; and Microsoft Systems Management Server helps centrally manages the distributed environment with integrated features, including hardware inventory, software inventory and metering, software distribution and installation, and remote troubleshooting tools. Windows Media Technologies. Microsoft Windows Media Technologies provide the ability create, deliver, and play streaming media files for applications ranging from news and entertainment -commerce and corporate training available across all types devices, networks, and services. Windows Media Technologies components include the Windows Media Tools, Windows Media Services streaming server, and Windows Media Player. Productivity Applications and Developer The Productivity Applications and Developer segment develops desktop applications, server applications, developer tools, Web authoring tools, and solutions businesses providing software and services conduct commerce the Internet. Business Productivity The Business Productivity Division delivers integrated business productivity solutions for the knowledge worker, including the Office family products, other desktop applications, server applications, and the Windows operating system for productivity appliances. Microsoft Office. Microsoft Office suite software programs featuring seamless integration the most commonly used desktop applications. Microsoft Office based upon document-centric concept, with common commands and extensive use cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office available several versions, with certain combinations products, and available for the Windows and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Office integrates core productivity tools with the Web simplify publishing Office documents intranet Internet site, simplifies information system support with self-repairing installation, and has enhanced usability with customizable menus based IntelliSense( ) technology rules. Products offered the various versions include the word processor Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, Microsoft Outlook( ) messaging and collaboration client, Microsoft PowerPoint( ) presentation graphics program, Microsoft Access database management application, and others. Microsoft Word word- processing program designed easily create professional-looking documents for the Web, -mail, and print. Microsoft Excel creates data-rich spreadsheets for universal viewing the Internet and for collaboration, allows users analyze data with charts, and incorporates Microsoft PivotTable( ) views and graphs. Microsoft Outlook messaging and collaboration client provides single location for organizing and managing day- -day information, including -mail, calendars, business contacts, and task lists. Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program complete set tools for creating professional presentations. Microsoft Access database management application allows for easy access and retrieval information and includes pre-packaged solutions create databases quickly. Microsoft FrontPage Web site creation and management tool for Web sites the Internet intranets. Microsoft PhotoDraw( ) business graphics software program for creating custom business graphics editing illustrations and photos. Other Desktop Application Products. The Company also offers other stand- alone desktop application products. Microsoft Project critical path project scheduling and resource allocation program. Microsoft Visio( ) enables you communicate effectively with easy- -assemble drawings and diagrams; create organizational charts and flowcharts; draw technical schematics and annotate CAD drawings; build Web site maps; and manually automatically work network, software, and database design. Microsoft Publisher easy- - use, entry-level desktop publishing program. Most the applications included the various productivity suites are also licensed separately. Server Applications. The Microsoft BackOffice( ) family server applications integrated suite software products based Windows Server that includes file and print services, applications, database, messaging, groupware, desktop management, Internet access, transaction processing, and host connectivity. The BackOffice suite enables organizations share information, collaborate, and manage and deploy business-critical applications and includes BackOffice Server, Exchange Server, Proxy Server, Site Server, SQL Server( ) and others. Microsoft BackOffice Small Business Server designed for smaller companies users less integrated solution for sharing files, databases, printers, electronic mail, fax services, applications, and other resources. Microsoft Site Server allows comprehensive management sophisticated Web sites and their content. Microsoft Site Server Commerce helps businesses engage customers and partners with creating cost-effective commerce sites and applications, targeted online advertising and marketing, and personalized promotion. Microsoft Exchange Server. The Company\' messaging and collaboration server Microsoft Exchange Server, which provides -mail, group scheduling, task management, and document routing capabilities. Exchange Server offers scalable, reliable, and secure environment for multiple clients, and Internet protocols part the core server architecture. also includes tools create collaboration applications. Windows . The Company delivers software and platform technologies for broad range productivity appliances. Microsoft develops and markets Windows , scaleable Windows platform for communications, entertainment, and mobile computing devices. The Windows operating system built around API that consistent with other -bit Windows-based operating systems. Windows allows productivity appliances communicate with each other, share information with Windows-based PCs, and connect the Internet. Microsoft teams with hardware companies that build Windows -based devices. bCentral. Microsoft\' small businesses portal, bCentral, allows companies leverage the Internet drive their business forward. Microsoft bCentral Site Manager web site management and hosting service which empowers small businesses easily create and manage their own web sites, while allowing for higher-end editing Microsoft FrontPage. Microsoft bCentral LinkExchange, which the Company acquired November , provides services small businesses and Web site owners increase their online traffic and sales with free advertising banner ads their site exchange for placing ads other network sites. Developer The Developer Group provides software development tools and distributed application platforms developers Windows-based applications and Internet applications. These products and services empower independent software developers, corporate developers, solutions developers, and Webmasters create broad spectrum applications. Microsoft Windows Distributed interNet Applications (DNA) Architecture the application development model for the Windows platform. Windows DNA specifies how develop robust, scalable, distributed applications using the Windows platform; extend existing data and external applications support the Internet; and support wide range client devices. Windows DNA provides for the integration Web and client server application development models through the Component Object Model (COM). COM underlies large majority the code developed for Windows and Windows operating systems. COM+, extension COM, builds COM\' integrated services and features, making easier for developers create and use software components any language, using any tool. Developer Tools. Software development tools and computer languages allow software developers write programs particular computer language and translate programs into binary machine-readable set commands that activate and instruct hardware. The Company develops and markets number software development environments and language compilers. Microsoft Visual ++( ) development system the Company\' development system for Windows- based application development. The Microsoft Visual Basic( ) development system provides easy access wide variety data sources integrating the Microsoft Access database engine and the ability take advantage investments commercial applications. The Microsoft Visual InterDev( ) Web development system includes integrated, team-based development tools for building Web-based applications based HTML, Script, and components written any language. Microsoft Visual ++( ) development system for Java contains high productivity Integrated Development Environment and collection integrated components create, test, tune, and deploy Java code multiple platforms. Microsoft Visual Studio( ) development system for Windows-based development suite developer tools enabling developers build components and applications using Visual Basic, Visual ++, Microsoft Visual FoxPro( ) database development system, Visual InterDev, and Visual ++. Developers can subscribe the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN( )) information service and receive periodic updates via -ROMs, magazines, and several -line information services. Microsoft SQL Server. Microsoft SQL Server( ) scalable, high- performance database management system designed specifically for distributed client server computing. SQL Server has built- data replication, management tools, Internet integration, and online analytical processing (OLAP) aid the analysis information for reporting and data modeling. Its open system architecture provides Windows -based platform for delivering cost- effective information solutions. Consumer The Consumer Group supplies services and content consumers over the Internet including MSN Internet Access; WebTV( ) Internet Service; MSN Portal and vertical properties; and develops software and hardware products that are designed meet the needs consumers the home environment. Most software and hardware products are licensed and sold and through retail channels consumers. Major product categories include learning, productivity, entertainment, and hardware peripherals. The Microsoft Network. MSN Internet Access Web-based online service. MSN provides easy and inexpensive access for users wide range graphically rich online content. MSN Internet Access provides dial- Internet access, free Web-based -mail through MSN Hotmail, and Microsoft MSN Messenger Service. MSN Hotmail, one the largest -mail services with million members, provides members with -mail account they can access from any with Internet access and has localized versions French, German, and Japanese. MSN Messenger Service free Internet messaging service that enables users see when other users are online exchange instant messages. WebTV. WebTV Networks online service that enables consumers experience the Internet through their televisions via set-top terminals based WebTV( ) technologies. WebTV operates the WebTV Network Service and develops the WebTV Internet Terminal and WebTV Plus Receiver, which are available through the Company\' licensees. Future versions the set-top terminals will use the Windows operating system. MSN Portal. The MSN Portal business provides services the Internet, encompassing the home page well the vertical services. The vertical services provide online decision support infrastructure for end users many fields such automobiles, travel, finance, and home purchasing. Microsoft CarPoint( ) online automotive service provides objective information for new car purchases, including test-drive reviews, dealer invoices, surround videos, and interactive classified advertisements for used car purchasing. Microsoft HomeAdvisor( ) online real estate service complete guide the home-buying process and provides comprehensive tools for finding homes and loans the Internet. Expedia, Inc., majority owned subsidiary Microsoft, provider branded online travel services for leisure and small business travelers operating its own website with localized versions the United Kingdom, Germany, and Canada and certain other websites the United States and Europe. Expedia offers one-stop travel shopping and reservation services, providing reliable, real-time access schedule, pricing and availability information. Expedia acquired Travelscape com, Inc. and VacationSpot com, Inc. March . MSN MoneyCentral( ) personal finance online service free interactive personal finance resource track securities providing company and mutual fund research, investment finder, daily editorial and market summaries, -mail notifications and alerts, and access online trading through leading financial services firms. MSNBC Internet news service that complements the MSNBC Cable Network, providing -depth reporting and information wide range news topics, from local national international news. Microsoft Passport platform technology that makes safer and easier for consumers access information and buy products and services online. Microsoft Passport allows consumers create single sign- , registration, and electronic wallet that can shared between all the sites that support Microsoft Passport. TransPoint end- -end system for Internet bill delivery and payment. TransPoint\' service, using existing payment systems, allows consumers access and pay their bills through the branded home banking services participating financial institutions and other consumer service providers. Learning. Learning titles include Microsoft Encarta( ) multimedia encyclopedia and Microsoft Bookshelf -ROM reference library. The Encarta family products includes multimedia encyclopedia database with interactive information, interactive world atlas with three-dimensional maps, world English dictionary, and online version with monthly updates. Microsoft Bookshelf multimedia reference library that integrates dictionary, world atlas, world almanac, thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and two books quotations. Titles for children include Personal Tutor, comprehensive, grade-based learning suite with TutorAssist( ) learning technology that identifies child\' specific learning needs and offers instruction, and series products based the popular children\' book and television series, Scholastic\' The Magic School Bus( ). Productivity and Finance. Microsoft\' productivity offerings include Microsoft Works, integrated software program that contains basic word- processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that allows the easy exchange information from one tool another. Microsoft Money financial organization product that allows users computerize their finances and provides online home-banking services with numerous different banks the United States. The Works Suite provides comprehensive collection software, including Microsoft Works, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Money, Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia, Microsoft Graphics Studio Greetings, and Microsoft Expedia Streets. Entertainment. The Company offers line entertainment products from classical software games online games, simulations, sport products, and strategy games. Microsoft Flight Simulator popular aircraft flight simulation product. Other games include Combat Flight Simulator, Age Empires( ), Monster Truck Madness( ) racing simulation, Microsoft Baseball, Microsoft Links, and other sports and action titles. The Microsoft Internet Gaming Zone gaming community the Internet allowing multiplayer gaming competitions Microsoft\' popular -ROM games and classic card, board, and puzzle games. Hardware Peripherals. The Company develops and markets several input devices including the Microsoft Mouse, hand-held pointing device that facilitates using the . The Microsoft IntelliMouse( ) pointing device with electronic eye that tracks movements over surfaces, and works for left- and right-handed users. The Company also markets several types keyboards including the Microsoft Natural( ) Keyboard, ergonomically designed keyboard. Microsoft sells various Microsoft SideWinder( ) game controllers and force feedback joysticks with realistic performance technology use with games. Joint Ventures. The Company has entered into joint venture arrangements take advantage creative talent and content from other organizations. Microsoft owns percent MSNBC Cable ., -hour cable news and information channel; and percent MSNBC Interactive News ., interactive online news service. National Broadcasting Company (NBC) owns the remaining percent these two joint ventures. Microsoft investor Transpoint ., joint venture between Microsoft, First Data Corporation, and Citibank. Microsoft owns percent Avanade, joint venture with Andersen Consulting which offers solutions and services based Windows . Microsoft Press Microsoft Press offers comprehensive learning and training resources help new users, power users, and professionals get the most from Microsoft technology through books, CDs, self-paced training kits, and videos that are created accommodate different learning styles and preferences. Microsoft Press( ) books are authored professional and technical writers, both Microsoft employees and independent authors. Microsoft Press contracts with independent commercial printer for the printing its books. Publisher\' Resources, Inc. acts the Company\' main fulfillment house the United States, maintaining the majority the inventory Microsoft Press books. Books are marketed independent sales representatives and Microsoft Press sales personnel. Internationally, Microsoft Press has numerous agreements with publishers for the worldwide distribution its books. Microsoft Press has granted publisher England the right distribute English language versions its books all countries except the United States, Canada, Latin America, and certain Asian countries. most cases, Microsoft Press provides each publisher with book\' manuscript, and the publisher arranges for its translation and the printing, marketing, and distribution the translated version. Customer Groups The enterprise and partner sales group (EPG) has responsibility for providing strategic leadership and creating programs for enterprise customers and partners, assisting the field organization. The organization responsible for coordinating the enterprise strategy industry, market, partner and customer segment. EPG focuses enterprise solutions including large and medium organizations enterprise strategy, industry solutions, integrated small organization strategy, anti-piracy, sales processes and readiness; sales and support systems; partner strategy and programs including global partner management; enterprise services; executive and technical sales including corporate account technical marketing, industry evangelism and executive sales events; and global account management. The group also creates integrated end- -end service continuum for enterprise customers. The industry solutions group includes full-service practices for financial services, telecommunications, federal and state and local government, and the educational market. The network solutions customer group responsible for introducing the Company\' products and technologies public infrastructure owners and Internet Content Providers. The customer group also focuses embedded and dedicated systems. Infrastructure owners include network operators (telephone companies, cable companies, Internet service providers, etc.) who build, own, and operate the public networks. The consumer customer group has responsibility for activities that target end users that make individual buying decisions for home PCs. Most sales and marketing activities aimed end-user customers are performed this group, including developing and administering reseller relationships; reseller sales terms and conditions; channel marketing and promotions; end-user marketing programs; and seminars, events, and sales training for resellers. The customer group\' sub-segments include direct marketing resellers and retailers. Product Development The software industry characterized extremely rapid technological change, which requires constant attention computing technology trends, and shifting consumer demand, and rapid product innovation. The pace change accelerating, the computing needs our customers move beyond the toward intelligent devices and appliances. Most the Company\' software products are developed internally. The Company also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees third-party development and localization certain products. Internal development enables Microsoft maintain closer technical control over the products and gives the Company the freedom designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. The Company has created substantial body proprietary development tools and has evolved development methodologies for creating and enhancing its products. These tools and methodologies are also designed simplify product\' portability among different operating systems, microprocessors, computing devices. Product documentation generally created internally. The Company believes that crucial factor the success new product getting market quickly respond new user needs advances intelligent devices, PCs, servers, and the Internet, without compromising product quality. The Company strives become informed the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, Microsoft provides software vendors range development, training, testing resources, and guidelines for developing applications software vendors. best serve the needs users around the world, Microsoft "localizes" many its products reflect local languages and conventions and improve the quality and usability the product international markets. Localizing product might require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Japanese versions, for example, all user messages and documentation are Japanese with monetary references the Japanese yen. Various Microsoft products have been localized into more than languages. During fiscal years , , and , the Company spent $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively, product research and development activities. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years, excluding funding joint venture activity. The Company committed continue high expenditures for research and product development. fiscal , Microsoft announced its most significant software research and development initiative, Microsoft NET. The fundamental strategy behind Microsoft NET focus the shift from individual Web sites devices connected the Internet, constellations computers, devices, and services that work together deliver broader, richer solutions. Microsoft\' NET strategy includes the delivery software service, built the XML standard; new user experience that accessible across and optimized for wide range devices; and the creation new opportunities for developers build Internet services and business more easily. Microsoft NET builds Microsoft\' core businesses, including Windows desktop and server operating systems, enterprise server applications, Microsoft Office, and MSN. Microsoft will offer range NET products and services including Windows NET--the next generation Windows platform designed with customized applications and services allow user control their digital information; MSN NET-- integrated consumer experience built the NET platform deliver more integrated and personalized experience; subscription services-- set consumer-oriented services the NET platform that will build existing Microsoft entertainment, gaming, education, and productivity products; Office NET-- advanced communications and productivity tools; bCentral NET-- subscription-based services and tools for small and growing businesses including hosted messaging, commerce services, and customer relationship management services; and Visual Studio NET--XML-based programming model and tools, fully supported MSDN and Windows DNA servers. Manufacturing Microsoft contracts out most its manufacturing activity third parties. Outside manufacturers produce various retail software packaged products and hardware peripherals. There are other custom manufacturers Microsoft could use the event outsourced manufacturing becomes unavailable from current vendors. The Company\' remaining manufacturing facilities are located Puerto Rico and Ireland. The Irish facility and the Puerto Rico facilities manufacture - ROMs. Microsoft outsources its manufacturing packaged products. Quality control tests are performed purchased parts, -ROMs, and other products. The chief materials and components used Microsoft products include -ROMs, books, and multicolor printed materials. The Company often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. The Company has multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components. The Company\' sales mix has shifted OEM and organizational licenses from packaged products. Also, online distribution software increasing. Operations Microsoft manages all product fulfillment, licensing, and logistics services. The Company has regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and the Greater Seattle area. The regional centers support all operations activities, including information processing, vendor management, logistics, and related supporting functions geographical regions. The regional center Dublin, Ireland supports the European, African, and Middle East regions, the center Singapore supports the Asia Pacific region, and the center the Greater Seattle area supports North and South America. The Company established Microsoft Licensing Incorporated (MSLI) Reno, Nevada, wholly owned subsidiary, which manages the Company\' OEM and certain organizational licensing operations. Marketing and Distribution The Company\' sales and marketing group seeks build long-term relationships with customers Microsoft products. The OEM sales group includes the sales force that works with original equipment manufacturers that preinstall Microsoft software their PCs. addition the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing organizations: the South Pacific and Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; and Asia. Finished Goods Channels Distributors and Resellers. The Company licenses and sells its products the finished goods channels primarily and through independent non-exclusive distributors and resellers. Distributors include Inacom, Ingram Micro, SoftBank, Tech Data, and Merisel. Resellers include Software Spectrum, Corporate Software & Technology, CompUSA, Software House International, Softmart, ASAP Software Express, and Best Buy. Microsoft has network field sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support. Enterprise Accounts. The Microsoft Select program offers flexible software acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially customized meet the needs large multinational organizations. Targeted audiences include technology specialists and influential end users large enterprises. Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with large account resellers. The Microsoft Open program licensing program that targeted for small and medium size organizations. available through the reseller channel and offers discounts based initial purchase volumes. The Microsoft Enterprise Agreement program licensing program designed provide flexible licensing and service solution tailored customers making long- term licensing commitment. The agreements are designed increase customer satisfaction simplifying license administration, payment terms, and the contract process. Solution Providers. Microsoft\' Solution Providers program comprehensive support relationship with independent organizations that provide network and system integration, custom development, training, and technical support for business computing solutions. The program supports system integrators, value-added resellers (VARs), consultants, custom application developers, solution developers, Internet service and hosting organizations, independent content providers, and site builders (companies that build Web sites for other companies), well technical support and training organizations. Under this business collaboration strategy, the Company provides sales and product information, development services, early access Microsoft products, and customer support tools, including priority telephone support, education, and business development support. ensure high-quality technical services for the Company\' products, Microsoft Solution Providers are required have Microsoft-certified professionals staff. Microsoft Direct Access comprehensive and open program that allows independent technology providers actively work with Microsoft through the Microsoft Direct Access program online, quarterly briefings, training, and action packs. Certified Professionals. Microsoft receives certification fees through the Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) program, program that provides credentials for those who have demonstrated -depth knowledge least one Microsoft product. become MCP, candidate must pass certification exam that provides valid and reliable measure technical proficiency and expertise. MCP exams are developed with the input professionals the industry and reflect how Microsoft products are used organizations throughout the world. The exams are administered independent organizations more than , testing centers around the world. MCPs receive access technical and product information through MCP Web site, MSDN Online Certified Membership, and invitations conferences, technical training sessions, and special events. Candidates may pass additional Microsoft certification exams further qualify their skills with Microsoft BackOffice products, development tools, and desktop applications. Consulting Services. Microsoft Consulting Service assists customers deploying and using the Company\' computer operating systems, applications, and communications products. The group works with Solution Providers and helps create enterprise-wide computing solutions for large corporate accounts. Microsoft Consulting Services also works with technology solutions providers enable them offer wide range Microsoft product-related services backed high levels technical skill and knowledge. International Sales Sites. The Company has established marketing and support subsidiaries more than countries. Product generally delivered the Company\' owned outsourced manufacturing operations, which are located the geographical region which the product was sold. organizing geographically, the Company able provide service international channel customers and access Microsoft professionals located the same region serve their specific needs. Subsidiaries have the responsibility for selling products customers, managing licensing programs, and providing support all types customers based international countries. Notes Financial Statements--(see Item ) describe foreign operations and export sales. The Company\' international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are subject certain risks common foreign operations general, such governmental regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Microsoft hedges portion its foreign exchange risk. Product Support The Company provides product support coverage options aligned the customer segments, partner segments, and communities. Coverage options range from standard -charge toll telephone support fee-based offerings providing unlimited number telephone and electronic technical support for all Microsoft products hours per day, days per week. Support offerings include the Alliance program, tailored for large enterprises running mission- critical applications Microsoft platforms; the Premier program for enterprises and technical account managers needing regular managed support; the Authorized Premier Support for all types businesses who work jointly with Microsoft and Microsoft Certified Support Center (MCSC) providers; and the Professional program for small organizations, developers and OEMs. The Personal program for home users, which provides free online self-help resources and paid assisted phone support. Users have access troubleshooting "wizards" and Microsoft\' KnowledgeBase, online library thousands technical articles that updated regularly with useful information regarding Microsoft products. Additionally, several support offerings include Microsoft TechNet and Microsoft Developer Network information subscription services. Support personnel are located various sites the United States and around the world. Certain support also supplied qualified third-party support organizations. supplement alternative direct support, the Company enhances the third-party support channel providing Microsoft Certified Solution Providers with education, training, tools, and support. Microsoft Certified Solution Providers include Authorized Training Centers, which offer advanced product education and certification Microsoft products; and Authorized Support Centers, which provide wide spectrum multinational support, multi-vendor support, and integration services. OEM Channel Microsoft operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right distribute copies the Company\' products with their computing devices, principally PCs. The Company also markets and licenses certain server operating systems, desktop applications, hardware devices, and consumer software programs OEMs under similar arrangements. almost all cases, the products are distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering one more its products with virtually all the major OEMs, including, Acer, Actebis, Compaq, Dell, eMachines, Fujitsu, Fujitsu Siemens Computers, Gateway, Hewlett Packard, IBM, Micron, NEC, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba. substantial amount OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume customized vendors. Advertising The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms. Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials are targeted various end-user segments. The Company uses broad consumer media (television, radio, the Internet, and business publications) and trade publications. Microsoft has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs are reimbursed for certain advertising expenditures. The company has also formed alliance with Best Buy provide for joint marketing Best Buy\' retail stores, online, and through other vehicles demonstrate and sell MSN Internet access and connectivity solutions. Customers The Company\' customers include consumers, small and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, dotcoms, educational institutions, ISPs, application developers, and OEMs. Most consumers Microsoft products are individuals businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and home. The consumers and organizations obtain Microsoft products primarily through resellers and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their computing hardware. Notes Financial Statements (see Item ) quantify customers that represent more than % the Company\' revenue. The Company\' practice ship its products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from its customers and, consequently, backlog not significant. Competition The software business intensely competitive and subject extremely rapid technological change. the company pursues its largest strategic initiative, Microsoft NET, the Company could experience more intense competition during the transition from the traditional core businesses its new products based the NET platform. The Company continues face movements from -based applications server-based applications Web-based application hosting services, from proprietary software open source software, and from PCs Internet-based devices. number Microsoft\' most significant competitors, including IBM, Sun Microsystems, Oracle, and AOL, are collaborating with one another various initiatives directed competing with Microsoft. These initiatives relate part efforts move software from individual PCs centrally managed servers, which would present significant challenges the Company\' historical business model. Other competitive collaborative efforts also include the development new platform technologies that are intended replicate much the value Microsoft Windows operating systems. New computing form factors, including non- information devices, are gaining popularity and competing with PCs running Microsoft\' software products. Microsoft faces formidable competition these new areas and all areas its current business activity, including competition from many companies much larger than Microsoft. The rapid pace technological change, particularly the area Internet platforms and services, continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. The Company also faces relentless competition from software pirates who unlawfully copy and distribute Microsoft\' copyrighted software products, depriving the Company large amounts revenue annual basis. Operating Systems. Microsoft\' operating system products face substantial competition from wide variety companies. Competitors such IBM, Apple Computer, Sun Microsystems, and others are vertically integrated both software development and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they preinstall computers their own manufacture. Many these operating system software products are also licensed third-party OEMs for preinstallation their computers. Microsoft\' operating system products compete with UNIX-based operating systems from wide range companies, including IBM, & , Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, The Santa Cruz Operation, and others. Variants UNIX run wide variety computer platforms and have gained increasing acceptance desktop operating systems. With increased attention toward open-source software, the Linux operating system has gained increasing acceptance. Several computer manufacturers preinstall Linux Servers and many leading software developers have written applications that run Linux. Microsoft Windows operating systems are also threatened alternative platforms such those based Internet browsing software and Java technology promoted AOL and Sun Microsystems. Business Solutions. The Company competes the business providing enterprise-wide computing solutions with several competitors who enjoy larger share sales and larger installed bases. Many companies offer operating system software for mainframes and midrange computers, including IBM, Hewlett-Packard, and Sun Microsystems. Since legacy business systems are typically support-intensive, these competitors also offer substantial support services. Software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Oracle, IBM, Computer Associates, Sybase, and Informix. There are also several software vendors who offer connectivity servers. mentioned above, there are numerous companies and organizations that offer Internet and intranet server software, that compete against the Company\' business systems. Additionally, IBM has large installed base Lotus Notes and :Mail, both which compete with the Company\' collaboration and -mail products. Desktop Applications. The Company\' competitors include many software application vendors, such IBM (Lotus), Oracle, Apple (Filemaker, Inc.), Sun Microsystems, Corel, Qualcomm, and local application developers Europe and Asia. IBM and Corel have large installed bases with their spreadsheet and word-processor products, respectively, and both have aggressive pricing strategies. Also, IBM and Apple preinstall certain their application software products various models their PCs, competing directly with Microsoft\' desktop application software. Additionally, Web-based application hosting services provide alternative -based applications such Microsoft Office. Developer Tools. The Company\' developer products compete against offerings from Borland, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Sybase, Symantec, and other companies. Consumer Platforms. wide variety companies develop operating systems for information appliances, including Palm, Apple, Motorola, 3Com, Psion Software, Sun Microsystems, Microworkz, , Inc., WindRiver, Symbian and others. The Company\' WebTV offerings and other multimedia consumer products face competitors such AOL, Oracle, Liberate Technologies, NetChannel, and others. enormous range companies, including media conglomerates, telephone companies, cable companies, retailers, hardware manufacturers, and software developers, are competing make interactive services widely available the home. -Commerce. Microsoft competes with many companies the -commerce business and its major components, including business- -consumer, business- -business, procurement, and supply chain integration. the development and marketing Internet and intranet solutions, major commerce software competitors provide many different ranges products and solutions that compete with Microsoft, including IBM, Oracle, AOL, Sun Microsystems, Broadvision, and many others. Online Services. Microsoft\' online services network, MSN, faces formidable competition from AOL (including its CompuServe unit), Yahoo, and vast array Web sites and portals that offer content all types and -mail, instant messaging, calendaring, chat, and search and shopping services, among other things. addition, the ease entry into Internet services has allowed numerous Web-based service companies build significant businesses areas such -mail, electronic commerce, Web search engines, directories, and information numerous types. Competitors include AOL, Yahoo, Excite, Lycos, Infoseek, AltaVista, and many others. The Company\' MSNBC joint ventures face formidable competition from other -hour cable and Internet news organizations such CNN, CNN Headline News, and Fox News Network. MSNBC also competes with traditional news media such newspapers, magazines and broadcast . Consumer Software and Hardware. The Company\' Consumer Group faces smaller, but focused and branded competitors, particularly the areas hardware, learning, and entertainment. Consolidation this area software development has made certain competitors even stronger. Competitors include Intuit, Electronic Arts, Mattel (The Learning Company), Hasbro, Logitech, Voyager, Cendant, and Dorling Kindersley. Still other competitors own branded content, such Disney and Lucas Arts. Additionally, -based games and the Company\' future Xbox compete and will compete head- -head against games created for proprietary systems such Nintendo, Sony PlayStation, and Sega. Input devices face substantial competition from computer manufacturers, since computers are typically sold with keyboard and mouse, and other manufacturers these devices. The Company\' competitive position may adversely affected one more these factors the future, particularly view the fast pace technological change the computing industry. Employees June , , the Company employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales, marketing, and support, , manufacturing and distribution, and , finance and administration. Microsoft\' success highly dependent its ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. date, the Company believes has been successful its efforts recruit qualified employees, but there assurance that will continue successful the future. None the Company\' employees subject collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes relations with its employees are excellent. Item . Properties The Company\' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington situated two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company recently completed the construction office building comprising approximately , square feet space and constructing two buildings with approximately , square feet space that will occupied the winter . The Company owns million square feet its corporate campus and leases many buildings the Puget Sound Region. The Company has leased several buildings totaling approximately , square feet space that will occupied the fall . accommodate expansion needs the Company has option purchase acres land Issaquah, Washington. The Company leases many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. The construction , square foot campus the San Francisco, California area was recently completed. The Company leases many sites internationally totaling approximately million square feet. The Company\' European operations center and localization division consist , square foot campus situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland facilities are partially owned the Company. The Company leases , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico and leases , square-foot facility Singapore for its Asia Pacific operations center. The Company has large office building space leased the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; United Kingdom campus , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; and Beijing, China , square feet. The Company\' facilities are fully used for current operations all segments and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. Item . Legal Proceedings The information set forth Notes Financial Statements--Contingencies pages - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . Executive Officers the Registrant The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company ---- --- ------------------------- William . Gates........ Chairman the Board; Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer....... President; Chief Executive Officer Robert . Herbold....... Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer William . Neukom....... Executive Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary James . Allchin........ Group Vice President, Platforms Orlando Ayala Lozano.... Group Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Services Richard . Belluzzo..... Group Vice President, Personal Services and Devices Paul . Maritz.......... Group Vice President, Platforms Strategy and Developer Robert . Muglia........ Group Vice President,.NET Services Jeffrey . Raikes....... Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services Robert . Bach.......... Senior Vice President, Home and Retail Brad Chase.............. Senior Vice President, MSN com David Cole.............. Senior Vice President, Personal Services Platform John . Connors......... Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois.. Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Jon DeVaan.............. Senior Vice President, Service and Platform Paul Flessner........... Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Server Paul . Gross........... Senior Vice President, Collaboration and Mobility Joachim Kempin.......... Senior Vice President, OEM Michel Lacombe.......... Senior Vice President; Chairman, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Brian MacDonald......... Senior Vice President, Subscription Service Craig Mundie............ Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy Richard . Rashid....... Senior Vice President, Research Steven . Sinofsky...... Senior Vice President, Office Brian Valentine......... Senior Vice President, Windows David Vaskevitch........ Senior Vice President, Business Applications Bernard . Vergnes...... Senior Vice President; Chairman Emeritus, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and took the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman the Board since the Company\' incorporation. . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . has been President since July , and prior that, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . was Senior Vice President, Systems Software from . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & \' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Neukom was named Executive Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs October . had been Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs since February . joined Microsoft Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs. . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February , Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division since November , and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Ayala was named Group Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Services August . had been Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas since February and before holding that position was Vice President the developing markets Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. joined Microsoft May Senior Director the Latin America Region. . Belluzzo was named Group Vice President, Personal Services and Devices August . joined Microsoft Group Vice President, Consumer and Commence September . . Belluzzo had been Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Silicon Graphics, Inc. since January . Prior his employment Silicon Graphics, Inc., Belluzzo was employed the Hewlett-Packard Company for years, serving since Executive Vice President and General Manager the computer organization. . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms Strategy and Developer March . had been Group Vice President, Developer since March . was previously Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications since October and before holding that position was Group Vice President, Platforms since May . . Maritz had been Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy since November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . September , , Microsoft announced that . Maritz retiring from the Company, but will continue serve consultant Microsoft strategic and business issues. . Muglia was named Group Vice President,.NET Services August . had been Group Vice President, Business Productivity since December . was named Senior Vice President, Business Productivity March and was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools February . had been Vice President, Server Applications since and was Vice President, Developer Tools since . joined Microsoft January . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services August . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . Before holding that position, had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Home and Retail March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Chase was named Senior Vice President, MSN com December . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since September . . Chase had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . was Vice President, Developer Relations and Windows Marketing. . Chase joined Microsoft July . . Cole was named Senior Vice President, Personal Services Platform August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Connors was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration, and Chief Financial Officer December . had been Vice President, Enterprise since March . . Connors had been Vice President, Information Technology, and Chief Information Officer since July . joined Microsoft January . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa July . had been Vice President, Customer Marketing since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President Microsoft Europe since and General Manager for Microsoft France since . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . DeVaan was named Senior Vice President, Service and Platform December . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since September . . DeVaan had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications since . . DeVaan joined Microsoft . . Flessner was named Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Server December . had been Vice President, Database and Data Access. Since joining the Company, . Flessner\' primary responsibilities have been the development Microsoft\' database business. assumed responsibility for the engineering Microsoft SQL Server . joined Microsoft . . Gross was named Senior Vice President, Collaboration and Mobility March . had been Senior Vice President, Server Applications since December and Vice President, Server Applications since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Developer Tools. . Gross joined Microsoft September . Before joining Microsoft, was Senior Vice President Research and Development Borland International Inc. . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin joined Microsoft . . Lacombe Chairman, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa. was named Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa February . had been President, Microsoft Europe and Senior Vice President, Microsoft since July . had been Vice President, Europe since September . . Lacombe joined Microsoft . . MacDonald was named Senior Vice President, Subscription Service August . had been Vice President, New Application Technologies since December . Before holding that position, started and led the team that created the Microsoft Outlook messaging and collaboration client. joined Microsoft . . Mundie Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy. was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology December . . Rashid was named Senior Vice President, Research May . had been Vice President, Research since July . joined Microsoft September . . Sinofsky was named Senior Vice President, Office December . had been Vice President, Office since December . . Sinofsky joined the Office team , increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release the desktop suite. joined Microsoft July . . Valentine was named Senior Vice President, Windows December . had been Vice President, Business and Enterprise since March . had been Vice President, Windows since December . Before managing the Windows group, . Valentine managed the server applications division and had been responsible for the Exchange product unit. joined Microsoft . . Vaskevitch was named Senior Vice President, Business Applications March . had been Senior Vice President, Developer since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Distributed Applications Platform. joined Microsoft . . Vergnes Senior Vice President and Chairman Emeritus, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa. was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes joined Microsoft . PART Item . Market for Registrant\' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Reference also made the information put warrants described the notes financial statements incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . All such transactions are exempt from registration under Section ( ) the Securities Act . Each transaction was privately negotiated and each offeree and purchaser was accredited investor qualified institutional buyer. public offering public solicitation was used the registrant the placement these securities. June , , the Company issued aggregate , its common shares pursuant the acquisition the Company substantially all the assets NetGames USA, Inc., Kansas corporation ("NetGames") owned eleven shareholders. All the Company common shares issued this transaction were issued non-public offering pursuant exemption from the registration requirements the Securities Act , amended (the " Act"), under Section ( ) the Act. This sale was made without general solicitation advertising. The Company has filed Registration Statement form - covering the resale such securities. All net proceeds from the sale such securities will the selling shareholders who offer and sell their shares. The Company has not received and will not receive any proceeds from the sale these common shares other than the assets and liabilities NetGames. Item . Selected Financial Data The information set forth the inside front cover the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition The information set forth pages - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The following financial statements for the Company and independent auditors\' report set forth pages , - , and the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit .. Income Statements for the three years ended June , . Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June , . Balance Sheets June , and . Stockholders\' Equity Statements for the three years ended June , . Notes Financial Statements. Independent Auditors\' Report Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. PART III Item . Directors the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Item . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. The information Notes Financial Statements--Operational Transactions pages through the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed one report Form - during the quarter ended June , . The Company disclosed that June , , the United States District Court for the District Columbia entered Final Judgment and Memorandum and Order the case United States America . Microsoft Corporation. Also, the Company disclosed that June , , filed Notice Appeal and Motion for Stay the Judgment Pending Appeal, appealing the United States Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit the Final Judgment and the Findings Fact and Conclusions Law entered April , finding that Microsoft violated the federal and state antitrust laws. addition, the United States Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit entered Order June , agreeing hear the appeal the court sitting banc. ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference the inside front cover Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages , - , and Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / John . Connors __________________________________ John . Connors Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title --------- ----- Chairman the Board Directors and ______________________________________ Chief Software Architect William . Gates / / Steven . Ballmer President and Chief Executive Officer ______________________________________ Steven . Ballmer / / Paul . Allen Director ______________________________________ Paul . Allen Director ______________________________________ Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director ______________________________________ David . Marquardt / / Ann McLaughlin Director ______________________________________ Ann McLaughlin / / . . Reed, . Director ______________________________________ . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director ______________________________________ Jon . Shirley / / John . Connors Senior Vice President, Finance and ______________________________________ Administration; Chief Financial Officer John . Connors Exhibit Index Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference the inside front cover Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages , - , and Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': "Properties The Company' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington situated two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company recently completed the construction office building comprising approximately , square feet space and constructing two buildings with approximately , square feet space that will occupied the winter . The Company owns million square feet its corporate campus and leases many buildings the Puget Sound Region. The Company has leased several buildings totaling approximately , square feet space that will occupied the fall . accommodate expansion needs the Company has option purchase acres land Issaquah, Washington. The Company leases many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. The construction , square foot campus the San Francisco, California area was recently completed. The Company leases many sites internationally totaling approximately million square feet. The Company' European operations center and localization division consist , square foot campus situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland facilities are partially owned the Company. The Company leases , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico and leases , square-foot facility Singapore for its Asia Pacific operations center. The Company has large office building space leased the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; United Kingdom campus , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; and Beijing, China , square feet. The Company' facilities are fully used for current operations all segments and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ", 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The information set forth Notes Financial Statements--Contingencies pages - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ', 'item 4. ': "Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . Executive Officers the Registrant The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company ---- --- ------------------------- William . Gates........ Chairman the Board; Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer....... President; Chief Executive Officer Robert . Herbold....... Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer William . Neukom....... Executive Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary James . Allchin........ Group Vice President, Platforms Orlando Ayala Lozano.... Group Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Services Richard . Belluzzo..... Group Vice President, Personal Services and Devices Paul . Maritz.......... Group Vice President, Platforms Strategy and Developer Robert . Muglia........ Group Vice President,.NET Services Jeffrey . Raikes....... Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services Robert . Bach.......... Senior Vice President, Home and Retail Brad Chase.............. Senior Vice President, MSN com David Cole.............. Senior Vice President, Personal Services Platform John . Connors......... Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois.. Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Jon DeVaan.............. Senior Vice President, Service and Platform Paul Flessner........... Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Server Paul . Gross........... Senior Vice President, Collaboration and Mobility Joachim Kempin.......... Senior Vice President, OEM Michel Lacombe.......... Senior Vice President; Chairman, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Brian MacDonald......... Senior Vice President, Subscription Service Craig Mundie............ Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy Richard . Rashid....... Senior Vice President, Research Steven . Sinofsky...... Senior Vice President, Office Brian Valentine......... Senior Vice President, Windows David Vaskevitch........ Senior Vice President, Business Applications Bernard . Vergnes...... Senior Vice President; Chairman Emeritus, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and took the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman the Board since the Company' incorporation. . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . has been President since July , and prior that, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . was Senior Vice President, Systems Software from . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & ' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Neukom was named Executive Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs October . had been Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs since February . joined Microsoft Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs. . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February , Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division since November , and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Ayala was named Group Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Services August . had been Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas since February and before holding that position was Vice President the developing markets Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. joined Microsoft May Senior Director the Latin America Region. . Belluzzo was named Group Vice President, Personal Services and Devices August . joined Microsoft Group Vice President, Consumer and Commence September . . Belluzzo had been Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Silicon Graphics, Inc. since January . Prior his employment Silicon Graphics, Inc., Belluzzo was employed the Hewlett-Packard Company for years, serving since Executive Vice President and General Manager the computer organization. . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms Strategy and Developer March . had been Group Vice President, Developer since March . was previously Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications since October and before holding that position was Group Vice President, Platforms since May . . Maritz had been Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy since November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . September , , Microsoft announced that . Maritz retiring from the Company, but will continue serve consultant Microsoft strategic and business issues. . Muglia was named Group Vice President,.NET Services August . had been Group Vice President, Business Productivity since December . was named Senior Vice President, Business Productivity March and was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools February . had been Vice President, Server Applications since and was Vice President, Developer Tools since . joined Microsoft January . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services August . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . Before holding that position, had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Home and Retail March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Chase was named Senior Vice President, MSN com December . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since September . . Chase had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . was Vice President, Developer Relations and Windows Marketing. . Chase joined Microsoft July . . Cole was named Senior Vice President, Personal Services Platform August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Connors was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration, and Chief Financial Officer December . had been Vice President, Enterprise since March . . Connors had been Vice President, Information Technology, and Chief Information Officer since July . joined Microsoft January . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa July . had been Vice President, Customer Marketing since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President Microsoft Europe since and General Manager for Microsoft France since . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . DeVaan was named Senior Vice President, Service and Platform December . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since September . . DeVaan had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications since . . DeVaan joined Microsoft . . Flessner was named Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Server December . had been Vice President, Database and Data Access. Since joining the Company, . Flessner' primary responsibilities have been the development Microsoft' database business. assumed responsibility for the engineering Microsoft SQL Server . joined Microsoft . . Gross was named Senior Vice President, Collaboration and Mobility March . had been Senior Vice President, Server Applications since December and Vice President, Server Applications since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Developer Tools. . Gross joined Microsoft September . Before joining Microsoft, was Senior Vice President Research and Development Borland International Inc. . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin joined Microsoft . . Lacombe Chairman, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa. was named Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa February . had been President, Microsoft Europe and Senior Vice President, Microsoft since July . had been Vice President, Europe since September . . Lacombe joined Microsoft . . MacDonald was named Senior Vice President, Subscription Service August . had been Vice President, New Application Technologies since December . Before holding that position, started and led the team that created the Microsoft Outlook messaging and collaboration client. joined Microsoft . . Mundie Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy. was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology December . . Rashid was named Senior Vice President, Research May . had been Vice President, Research since July . joined Microsoft September . . Sinofsky was named Senior Vice President, Office December . had been Vice President, Office since December . . Sinofsky joined the Office team , increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release the desktop suite. joined Microsoft July . . Valentine was named Senior Vice President, Windows December . had been Vice President, Business and Enterprise since March . had been Vice President, Windows since December . Before managing the Windows group, . Valentine managed the server applications division and had been responsible for the Exchange product unit. joined Microsoft . . Vaskevitch was named Senior Vice President, Business Applications March . had been Senior Vice President, Developer since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Distributed Applications Platform. joined Microsoft . . Vergnes Senior Vice President and Chairman Emeritus, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa. was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes joined Microsoft . PART ", 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Reference also made the information put warrants described the notes financial statements incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . All such transactions are exempt from registration under Section ( ) the Securities Act . Each transaction was privately negotiated and each offeree and purchaser was accredited investor qualified institutional buyer. public offering public solicitation was used the registrant the placement these securities. June , , the Company issued aggregate , its common shares pursuant the acquisition the Company substantially all the assets NetGames USA, Inc., Kansas corporation ("NetGames") owned eleven shareholders. All the Company common shares issued this transaction were issued non-public offering pursuant exemption from the registration requirements the Securities Act , amended (the " Act"), under Section ( ) the Act. This sale was made without general solicitation advertising. The Company has filed Registration Statement form - covering the resale such securities. All net proceeds from the sale such securities will the selling shareholders who offer and sell their shares. The Company has not received and will not receive any proceeds from the sale these common shares other than the assets and liabilities NetGames. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth the inside front cover the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ', 'item 7. ': "Management' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition The information set forth pages - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ", 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ', 'item 8. ': "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The following financial statements for the Company and independent auditors' report set forth pages , - , and the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit .. Income Statements for the three years ended June , . Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June , . Balance Sheets June , and . Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June , . Notes Financial Statements. Independent Auditors' Report ", 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. PART III Item . Directors the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Item . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. The information Notes Financial Statements--Operational Transactions pages through the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed one report Form - during the quarter ended June , . The Company disclosed that June , , the United States District Court for the District Columbia entered Final Judgment and Memorandum and Order the case United States America . Microsoft Corporation. Also, the Company disclosed that June , , filed Notice Appeal and Motion for Stay the Judgment Pending Appeal, appealing the United States Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit the Final Judgment and the Findings Fact and Conclusions Law entered April , finding that Microsoft violated the federal and state antitrust laws. addition, the United States Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit entered Order June , agreeing hear the appeal the court sitting banc. ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference the inside front cover Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages , - , and Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / John . Connors __________________________________ John . Connors Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title --------- ----- Chairman the Board Directors and ______________________________________ Chief Software Architect William . Gates / / Steven . Ballmer President and Chief Executive Officer ______________________________________ Steven . Ballmer / / Paul . Allen Director ______________________________________ Paul . Allen Director ______________________________________ Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director ______________________________________ David . Marquardt / / Ann McLaughlin Director ______________________________________ Ann McLaughlin / / . . Reed, . Director ______________________________________ . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director ______________________________________ Jon . Shirley / / John . Connors Senior Vice President, Finance and ______________________________________ Administration; Chief Financial Officer John . Connors Exhibit Index Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference the inside front cover Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages , - , and Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. The information Notes Financial Statements--Operational Transactions pages through the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . PART ', 'item 14. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed one report Form - during the quarter ended June , . The Company disclosed that June , , the United States District Court for the District Columbia entered Final Judgment and Memorandum and Order the case United States America . Microsoft Corporation. Also, the Company disclosed that June , , filed Notice Appeal and Motion for Stay the Judgment Pending Appeal, appealing the United States Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit the Final Judgment and the Findings Fact and Conclusions Law entered April , finding that Microsoft violated the federal and state antitrust laws. addition, the United States Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit entered Order June , agreeing hear the appeal the court sitting banc. ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference the inside front cover Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages , - , and Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / John . Connors __________________________________ John . Connors Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title --------- ----- Chairman the Board Directors and ______________________________________ Chief Software Architect William . Gates / / Steven . Ballmer President and Chief Executive Officer ______________________________________ Steven . Ballmer / / Paul . Allen Director ______________________________________ Paul . Allen Director ______________________________________ Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director ______________________________________ David . Marquardt / / Ann McLaughlin Director ______________________________________ Ann McLaughlin / / . . Reed, . Director ______________________________________ . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director ______________________________________ Jon . Shirley / / John . Connors Senior Vice President, Finance and ______________________________________ Administration; Chief Financial Officer John . Connors Exhibit Index Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference the inside front cover Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages , - , and Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}