10-K 1 0001.txt FORM 10-K - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------------- FORM 10-K [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2000 [_] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the Transition Period from to ------ ------ Commission File Number 0-14278 ---------------- MICROSOFT CORPORATION Washington 91-1144442 (State of incorporation) (I.R.S. ID) One Microsoft Way, Redmond, Washington 98052-6399 (425) 882-8080 ---------------- Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock ---------------- Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_] Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [_] The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of September 8, 2000 was $302,326,027,351. The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of September 8, 2000 was 5,355,376,816. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II, and IV. Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement dated September 8, 2000 to be delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held November 9, 2000 are incorporated by reference into Part III. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- MICROSOFT CORPORATION FORM 10-K For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2000 INDEX Part I Item 1. Business....................................................... 1 Item 2. Properties..................................................... 13 Item 3. Legal Proceedings.............................................. 14 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders............ 14 Executive Officers of the Registrant........................... 14 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters....................................................... 18 Item 6. Selected Financial Data........................................ 18 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition....................................... 18 Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk..... 18 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................... 18 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures......................................... 18 Part III Item 10. Directors of the Registrant.................................... 19 Item 11. Executive Compensation......................................... 19 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.................................................... 19 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions................. 19 Part IV Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K...................................................... 20 Signatures..................................................... 22 i PART I Item 1. Business General Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" or "Microsoft") was founded as a partnership in 1975 and incorporated in 1981. Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports a wide range of software products for a multitude of computing devices. Microsoft software includes scalable operating systems for servers, personal computers (PCs), and intelligent devices; server applications for client/server environments; knowledge worker productivity applications; and software development tools. The Company's online efforts include the MSN(TM) network of Internet products and services and alliances with companies involved with broadband access and various forms of digital interactivity. Microsoft also licenses consumer software programs; sells hardware devices; provides consulting services; trains and certifies system integrators; and researches and develops advanced technologies for future software products. Microsoft's business strategy emphasizes the development of a broad line of software products for information technology (IT) professionals, knowledge workers, developers, and consumers, marketed through multiple channels of distribution. The Company is divided into three main areas: the Business Divisions, the Sales, Marketing, and Support Group, and the Operations Group. The Business Divisions work in close partnership in order to create powerful software services and solutions built around the Internet, Windows, and new devices. Each division is responsible for the product planning, development, strategy, and in some cases, marketing strategies for their respective customer segments. The product segments, based on these business divisions, are the Windows(R) Platforms segment, the Business Productivity Applications and Developer segment, and the Consumer and Other segment. The Windows Platforms segment contains the Windows Division and the Windows Digital Media Division. The Windows Division develops PC and server platforms required to run applications and services and to deliver the connectivity, management services and infrastructure for all types of users. The Windows Division builds platforms for enterprise, dotcoms, small businesses, and consumers. The Windows Digital Media Division develops digital media technology and services for Windows platforms available across all types of devices, networks, and services. The Productivity Applications and Developer segment has two primary divisions, the Business Productivity Group and the Developer Group. The Business Productivity Group creates desktop and server software applications and solutions for the knowledge workers and small businesses. The Developer Group builds architecture and development of our tools and related platform technologies for software developers. The Consumer and Other segment includes the Consumer Group. The Consumer Group provides Internet services and creates and markets productivity programs, learning and entertainment products, and hardware peripherals for consumers. For financial reporting, revenue from Microsoft Press, consulting, and certification of system integrators is included in this segment. See notes to financial statements for financial information regarding segment reporting. Microsoft has a research lab dedicated to creating new technology and converting problems into tangible solutions that Microsoft developers can incorporate into products to meet customers' needs. The Sales, Marketing, and Support Group is responsible for building long- term business relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), enterprises, small- and medium-sized businesses, application developers, educational institutions, and consumers. Enterprises are offered tailored license programs, enterprise-wide support, consulting services, and other specialized services. The group contains the Marketing Division, which is responsible for domestic execution of integrated marketing campaigns and similar worldwide initiatives; 1 and developing expertise in public relations, advertising, customer loyalty, research, and events. The group also manages the channels that serve customers by working with OEMs, distributors, and resellers. In addition to the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales organizations: the South Pacific and Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; and Asia. The Sales, Marketing, and Support group supports the Company's products with technical support for end users, developers, and IT departments in organizations. The Operations Group is responsible for managing business operations and overall business planning. This includes the process of manufacturing and delivering finished goods and licenses; corporate functions such as finance, administration, human resources, and legal. Products Windows Platforms The Windows Platforms segment is responsible for the development of PC and server platforms, including the Microsoft Windows and Windows 2000 operating systems. The segment is also responsible for developing the Microsoft Internet Explorer browsing software and Microsoft Windows Media(TM) Technologies. PC operating systems perform a variety of functions, such as allocating computer memory, scheduling applications software execution, managing information and communication flow among the various PC components, and enabling end users to access files and information from a variety of sources. The Windows NT operating system for servers is an enterprise-wide platform for building and deploying distributed applications for networked PCs. The Windows Platforms segment also provides products for developing, running, and managing Internet and intranet applications and content. Windows Millennium Edition. The latest version of the Windows operating system, Windows Millennium Edition (Me) operating system is designed specifically for home users to manage digital photos and music, work with video, create a home network, and communicate with other consumers. Windows Me was released in September 2000. Windows 98. The successor to Windows 95, Windows 98 is a personal computer operating system that provides a Web-oriented user interface, better system performance along with easier system diagnostics and maintenance. Windows 98 supports graphics, sound, and multimedia technologies and provides the ability to easily add and remove peripheral devices and support for Universal Serial Bus (USB). Windows 98 was released in June 1998. Windows 2000 Professional. The successor to Windows NT Workstation, Windows 2000 Professional operating system combined features to create a mainstream operating system for desktop and notebook computing in all organizations. Windows 2000 Professional contains the enhanced business features of Windows 98 such as Plug and Play, easy-to-use user interface, and power management and integrated the strengths of Windows NT Workstation including standards-based security, manageability, and reliability. Windows 2000 Professional was released in February 2000. Windows NT Workstation. A fully integrated, multitasking 32-bit PC operating system, Windows NT Workstation provides security, robustness, and portability. Windows NT Workstation is designed for mission-critical computing and provides the same features and applications programming interfaces (APIs) for Intel and Alpha AXP microprocessors. Microsoft Windows NT Workstation combines the Windows 98 operating system interface and usability features with the reliability and security of Windows NT for the business environment. Windows 2000 Server, Advanced Server, and Datacenter Server. Windows 2000 Server family builds on the Windows NT technology, integrating standards-based directory, Web, application, communications, file and print services with high reliability, efficient management, and support for networking hardware to provide the foundation for integrating with the Internet. Windows 2000 Server is a multipurpose network operating system for businesses of all sizes. Windows 2000 Advanced Server operating system is ideal for e-commerce and line-of-business applications and provides enhanced performance and scalability through SMP and extended memory 2 support. Windows Datacenter Server operating system is built for large-scale line-of-business and enterprise dotcom backend usage and supports server consolidation and enhanced scalability. Windows 2000 Server and Advanced Server were released in February 2000 and Windows Datacenter Server was released in September 2000. Windows NT Server. Windows NT Server is an operating system foundation for both server applications and file and print sharing, with network management features, administration tools, security, and high availability. Windows NT Server provides a scalable platform for business critical applications and databases, connectivity, system management, and electronic mail (e-mail) servers. The operating system integrates Web services such as Microsoft Internet Information Server, a service used to manage intranet and Internet functionality, and Microsoft FrontPage(R) Web site creation and management tool. Windows NT Server, Terminal Server Edition, an extension to the Windows NT Server, offers the application support of the Windows operating system platform with the centrally managed environment of the mainframe with terminal. Windows NT Server Enterprise Edition provides the means for building and deploying large-scale distributed applications for large and mission- critical servers featuring comprehensive clustering for scalability and availability. Other Servers. Microsoft Proxy Server creates a single, secure gateway to the Internet; Microsoft SNA Server provides connectivity to host data and applications; and Microsoft Systems Management Server helps centrally manages the distributed environment with integrated features, including hardware inventory, software inventory and metering, software distribution and installation, and remote troubleshooting tools. Windows Media Technologies. Microsoft Windows Media Technologies provide the ability to create, deliver, and play streaming media files for applications ranging from news and entertainment to e-commerce and corporate training available across all types of devices, networks, and services. Windows Media Technologies components include the Windows Media Tools, Windows Media Services streaming server, and Windows Media Player. Productivity Applications and Developer The Productivity Applications and Developer segment develops desktop applications, server applications, developer tools, Web authoring tools, and solutions to businesses by providing software and services to conduct commerce on the Internet. Business Productivity The Business Productivity Division delivers integrated business productivity solutions for the knowledge worker, including the Office family of products, other desktop applications, server applications, and the Windows CE operating system for productivity appliances. Microsoft Office. Microsoft Office is a suite of software programs featuring seamless integration of the most commonly used desktop applications. Microsoft Office is based upon a document-centric concept, with common commands and extensive use of cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office is available in several versions, with certain combinations of products, and available for the Windows and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Office 2000 integrates core productivity tools with the Web to simplify publishing Office documents to an intranet or Internet site, simplifies information system support with a self-repairing installation, and has enhanced usability with customizable menus based on IntelliSense(R) technology rules. Products offered in the various versions include the word processor Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, Microsoft Outlook(TM) messaging and collaboration client, Microsoft PowerPoint(R) presentation graphics program, Microsoft Access database management application, and others. Microsoft Word is a word- processing program designed to easily create professional-looking documents for the Web, e-mail, and print. Microsoft Excel creates data-rich spreadsheets for universal viewing on the Internet and for collaboration, allows users to analyze data with charts, and incorporates Microsoft PivotTable(R) views and graphs. Microsoft Outlook messaging and collaboration client provides a single location for organizing and managing day-to-day information, including e-mail, calendars, 3 business contacts, and task lists. Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program is a complete set of tools for creating professional presentations. Microsoft Access database management application allows for easy access and retrieval of information and includes pre-packaged solutions to create databases quickly. Microsoft FrontPage is a Web site creation and management tool for Web sites on the Internet or intranets. Microsoft PhotoDraw(TM) business graphics software is a program for creating custom business graphics by editing illustrations and photos. Other Desktop Application Products. The Company also offers other stand- alone desktop application products. Microsoft Project is a critical path project scheduling and resource allocation program. Microsoft Visio(R) enables you to communicate effectively with easy-to-assemble drawings and diagrams; create organizational charts and flowcharts; draw technical schematics and annotate CAD drawings; build Web site maps; and manually or automatically work on network, software, and database design. Microsoft Publisher is an easy-to- use, entry-level desktop publishing program. Most of the applications included in the various productivity suites are also licensed separately. Server Applications. The Microsoft BackOffice(R) family of server applications is an integrated suite of software products based on Windows NT Server that includes file and print services, applications, database, messaging, groupware, desktop management, Internet access, transaction processing, and host connectivity. The BackOffice suite enables organizations to share information, collaborate, and manage and deploy business-critical applications and includes BackOffice Server, Exchange Server, Proxy Server, Site Server, SQL Server(TM) and others. Microsoft BackOffice Small Business Server is designed for smaller companies of 25 users or less as an integrated solution for sharing files, databases, printers, electronic mail, fax services, applications, and other resources. Microsoft Site Server allows a comprehensive management of sophisticated Web sites and their content. Microsoft Site Server Commerce helps businesses engage customers and partners with creating cost-effective commerce sites and applications, targeted online advertising and marketing, and personalized promotion. Microsoft Exchange Server. The Company's messaging and collaboration server is Microsoft Exchange Server, which provides e-mail, group scheduling, task management, and document routing capabilities. Exchange Server offers a scalable, reliable, and secure environment for multiple clients, and Internet protocols as part of the core server architecture. It also includes tools to create collaboration applications. Windows CE. The Company delivers software and platform technologies for a broad range of productivity appliances. Microsoft develops and markets Windows CE, a scaleable Windows platform for communications, entertainment, and mobile computing devices. The Windows CE operating system is built around an API that is consistent with other 32-bit Windows-based operating systems. Windows CE allows productivity appliances to communicate with each other, share information with Windows-based PCs, and connect to the Internet. Microsoft teams up with hardware companies that build Windows CE-based devices. bCentral. Microsoft's small businesses portal, bCentral, allows companies to leverage the Internet to drive their business forward. Microsoft bCentral Site Manager is a web site management and hosting service which empowers small businesses to easily create and manage their own web sites, while allowing for higher-end editing in Microsoft FrontPage. Microsoft bCentral LinkExchange, which the Company acquired in November 1998, provides services to small businesses and Web site owners to increase their online traffic and sales with free advertising banner ads on their site in exchange for placing ads on other network sites. Developer The Developer Group provides software development tools and distributed application platforms to developers of Windows-based applications and Internet applications. These products and services empower independent software developers, corporate developers, solutions developers, and Webmasters to create a broad spectrum of applications. Microsoft Windows Distributed interNet Applications (DNA) Architecture is the application development model for the Windows platform. Windows DNA specifies how to develop robust, 4 scalable, distributed applications using the Windows platform; extend existing data and external applications to support the Internet; and support a wide range of client devices. Windows DNA provides for the integration of Web and client/server application development models through the Component Object Model (COM). COM underlies a large majority of the code developed for Windows and Windows NT operating systems. COM+, an extension of COM, builds on COM's integrated services and features, making it easier for developers to create and use software components in any language, using any tool. Developer Tools. Software development tools and computer languages allow software developers to write programs in a particular computer language and translate programs into a binary machine-readable set of commands that activate and instruct PC hardware. The Company develops and markets a number of software development environments and language compilers. Microsoft Visual C++(R) development system is the Company's development system for Windows- based application development. The Microsoft Visual Basic(R) development system provides easy access to a wide variety of data sources by integrating the Microsoft Access database engine and the ability to take advantage of investments in commercial applications. The Microsoft Visual InterDev(TM) Web development system includes integrated, team-based development tools for building Web-based applications based on HTML, Script, and components written in any language. Microsoft Visual J++(TM) development system for Java contains a high productivity Integrated Development Environment and a collection of integrated components to create, test, tune, and deploy Java code on multiple platforms. Microsoft Visual Studio(R) development system for Windows-based development is a suite of developer tools enabling developers to build components and applications using Visual Basic, Visual C++, Microsoft Visual FoxPro(R) database development system, Visual InterDev, and Visual J++. Developers can subscribe to the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN(TM)) information service and receive periodic updates via CD-ROMs, magazines, and several on-line information services. Microsoft SQL Server. Microsoft SQL Server(TM) is a scalable, high- performance database management system designed specifically for distributed client/server computing. SQL Server has built-in data replication, management tools, Internet integration, and online analytical processing (OLAP) to aid in the analysis of information for reporting and data modeling. Its open system architecture provides a Windows NT-based platform for delivering cost- effective information solutions. Consumer The Consumer Group supplies services and content to consumers over the Internet including MSN Internet Access; WebTV(R) Internet Service; MSN Portal and vertical properties; and develops software and hardware products that are designed to meet the needs of consumers in the home environment. Most software and hardware products are licensed and sold to and through retail channels to consumers. Major product categories include learning, productivity, entertainment, and hardware peripherals. The Microsoft Network. MSN Internet Access is a Web-based online service. MSN provides easy and inexpensive access for users to a wide range of graphically rich online content. MSN Internet Access provides dial-up Internet access, free Web-based e-mail through MSN Hotmail, and Microsoft MSN Messenger Service. MSN Hotmail, one of the largest e-mail services with 40 million members, provides members with an e-mail account they can access from any PC with Internet access and has localized versions in French, German, and Japanese. MSN Messenger Service is a free Internet messaging service that enables users to see when other users are online to exchange instant messages. WebTV. WebTV Networks is an online service that enables consumers to experience the Internet through their televisions via set-top terminals based on WebTV(TM) technologies. WebTV operates the WebTV Network Service and develops the WebTV Internet Terminal and WebTV Plus Receiver, which are available through the Company's licensees. Future versions of the set-top terminals will use the Windows CE operating system. MSN Portal. The MSN Portal business provides services on the Internet, encompassing the home page as well as the vertical services. The vertical services provide an online decision support infrastructure for end users 5 in many fields such as automobiles, travel, finance, and home purchasing. Microsoft CarPoint(TM) online automotive service provides objective information for new car purchases, including test-drive reviews, dealer invoices, surround videos, and interactive classified advertisements for used car purchasing. Microsoft HomeAdvisor(TM) online real estate service is a complete guide to the home-buying process and provides comprehensive tools for finding homes and loans on the Internet. Expedia, Inc., a majority owned subsidiary of Microsoft, is a provider of branded online travel services for leisure and small business travelers operating its own website with localized versions in the United Kingdom, Germany, and Canada and certain other websites in the United States and Europe. Expedia offers one-stop travel shopping and reservation services, providing reliable, real-time access to schedule, pricing and availability information. Expedia acquired Travelscape.com, Inc. and VacationSpot.com, Inc. in March 2000. MSN MoneyCentral(TM) personal finance online service is a free interactive personal finance resource to track securities by providing company and mutual fund research, an investment finder, daily editorial and market summaries, e-mail notifications and alerts, and access to online trading through leading financial services firms. MSNBC is an Internet news service that complements the MSNBC Cable Network, providing in-depth reporting and information on a wide range of news topics, from local to national to international news. Microsoft Passport is a platform technology that makes it safer and easier for consumers to access information and buy products and services online. Microsoft Passport allows consumers to create a single sign-in, registration, and electronic wallet that can be shared between all of the sites that support Microsoft Passport. TransPoint is an end-to-end system for Internet bill delivery and payment. TransPoint's service, using existing payment systems, allows consumers to access and pay their bills through the branded home banking services of participating financial institutions and other consumer service providers. Learning. Learning titles include Microsoft Encarta(R) multimedia encyclopedia and Microsoft Bookshelf CD-ROM reference library. The Encarta family of products includes a multimedia encyclopedia database with interactive information, an interactive world atlas with three-dimensional maps, a world English dictionary, and an online version with monthly updates. Microsoft Bookshelf is a multimedia reference library that integrates a dictionary, world atlas, world almanac, thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and two books of quotations. Titles for children include My Personal Tutor, a comprehensive, grade-based learning suite with TutorAssist(TM) learning technology that identifies a child's specific learning needs and offers instruction, and a series of products based on the popular children's book and television series, Scholastic's The Magic School Bus(TM). Productivity and Finance. Microsoft's productivity offerings include Microsoft Works, an integrated software program that contains basic word- processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that allows the easy exchange of information from one tool to another. Microsoft Money is a financial organization product that allows users to computerize their finances and provides online home-banking services with numerous different banks in the United States. The Works Suite provides a comprehensive collection of software, including Microsoft Works, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Money, Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia, Microsoft Graphics Studio Greetings, and Microsoft Expedia Streets. Entertainment. The Company offers a line of entertainment products from classical software games to online games, simulations, sport products, and strategy games. Microsoft Flight Simulator is a popular aircraft flight simulation product. Other games include Combat Flight Simulator, Age of Empires(R), Monster Truck Madness(R) racing simulation, Microsoft Baseball, Microsoft Links, and other sports and action titles. The Microsoft Internet Gaming Zone is a gaming community on the Internet allowing multiplayer gaming competitions of Microsoft's popular CD-ROM games and classic card, board, and puzzle games. Hardware Peripherals. The Company develops and markets several PC input devices including the Microsoft Mouse, a hand-held pointing device that facilitates using the PC. The Microsoft IntelliMouse(R) pointing device with an electronic eye that tracks movements over surfaces, and works for left- and right-handed users. The Company also markets several types of keyboards including the Microsoft Natural(R) Keyboard, an ergonomically designed keyboard. Microsoft sells various Microsoft SideWinder(R) game controllers and force feedback joysticks with realistic performance technology to use with PC games. Joint Ventures. The Company has entered into joint venture arrangements to take advantage of creative talent and content from other organizations. Microsoft owns 50 percent of MSNBC Cable L.L.C., a 24-hour cable 6 news and information channel; and 50 percent of MSNBC Interactive News L.L.C., an interactive online news service. National Broadcasting Company (NBC) owns the remaining 50 percent of these two joint ventures. Microsoft is an investor in Transpoint L.L.C., a joint venture between Microsoft, First Data Corporation, and Citibank. Microsoft owns a 49 percent of Avanade, a joint venture with Andersen Consulting which offers solutions and services based on Windows 2000. Microsoft Press Microsoft Press offers comprehensive learning and training resources to help new users, power users, and professionals get the most from Microsoft technology through books, CDs, self-paced training kits, and videos that are created to accommodate different learning styles and preferences. Microsoft Press(R) books are authored by professional and technical writers, both by Microsoft employees and independent authors. Microsoft Press contracts with an independent commercial printer for the printing of its books. Publisher's Resources, Inc. acts as the Company's main fulfillment house in the United States, maintaining the majority of the inventory of Microsoft Press books. Books are marketed by independent sales representatives and by Microsoft Press sales personnel. Internationally, Microsoft Press has numerous agreements with publishers for the worldwide distribution of its books. Microsoft Press has granted a publisher in England the right to distribute English language versions of its books in all countries except the United States, Canada, Latin America, and certain Asian countries. In most cases, Microsoft Press provides each publisher with a book's manuscript, and the publisher arranges for its translation and the printing, marketing, and distribution of the translated version. Customer Groups The enterprise and partner sales group (EPG) has responsibility for providing strategic leadership and creating programs for enterprise customers and partners, assisting the field organization. The organization is responsible for coordinating the enterprise strategy by industry, market, partner and customer segment. EPG focuses on enterprise solutions including large and medium organizations enterprise strategy, industry solutions, integrated small organization strategy, anti-piracy, sales processes and readiness; sales and support systems; partner strategy and programs including global partner management; enterprise services; executive and technical sales including corporate account technical marketing, industry evangelism and executive sales events; and global account management. The group also creates an integrated end-to-end service continuum for enterprise customers. The industry solutions group includes full-service practices for financial services, telecommunications, federal and state and local government, and the educational market. The network solutions customer group is responsible for introducing the Company's products and technologies to public infrastructure owners and Internet Content Providers. The customer group also focuses on embedded and dedicated systems. Infrastructure owners include network operators (telephone companies, cable companies, Internet service providers, etc.) who build, own, and operate the public networks. The consumer customer group has responsibility for activities that target end users that make individual buying decisions for home PCs. Most sales and marketing activities aimed at end-user customers are performed by this group, including developing and administering reseller relationships; reseller sales terms and conditions; channel marketing and promotions; end-user marketing programs; and seminars, events, and sales training for resellers. The customer group's sub-segments include direct marketing resellers and retailers. Product Development The software industry is characterized by extremely rapid technological change, which requires constant attention to computing technology trends, and shifting consumer demand, and rapid product innovation. The pace of change is accelerating, as the computing needs of our customers move beyond the PC toward intelligent devices and appliances. 7 Most of the Company's software products are developed internally. The Company also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees third-party development and localization of certain products. Internal development enables Microsoft to maintain closer technical control over the products and gives the Company the freedom to designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. The Company has created a substantial body of proprietary development tools and has evolved development methodologies for creating and enhancing its products. These tools and methodologies are also designed to simplify a product's portability among different operating systems, microprocessors, or computing devices. Product documentation is generally created internally. The Company believes that a crucial factor in the success of a new product is getting it to market quickly to respond to new user needs or advances in intelligent devices, PCs, servers, and the Internet, without compromising product quality. The Company strives to become informed at the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, Microsoft provides to software vendors a range of development, training, testing resources, and guidelines for developing applications to software vendors. To best serve the needs of users around the world, Microsoft "localizes" many of its products to reflect local languages and conventions and to improve the quality and usability of the product in international markets. Localizing a product might require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. In Japanese versions, for example, all user messages and documentation are in Japanese with monetary references in the Japanese yen. Various Microsoft products have been localized into more than 30 languages. During fiscal years 1998, 1999, and 2000, the Company spent $2.60 billion, $2.97 billion, and $3.78 billion, respectively, on product research and development activities. Those amounts represented 17.0%, 15.0%, and 16.4%, respectively, of revenue in each of those years, excluding funding of joint venture activity. The Company is committed to continue high expenditures for research and product development. In fiscal 2000, Microsoft announced its most significant software research and development initiative, Microsoft.NET. The fundamental strategy behind Microsoft.NET is to focus on the shift from individual Web sites or devices connected to the Internet, to constellations of computers, devices, and services that work together to deliver broader, richer solutions. Microsoft's.NET strategy includes the delivery of software as a service, built on the XML standard; a new user experience that is accessible across and optimized for a wide range of devices; and the creation of new opportunities for developers to build Internet services and business more easily. Microsoft.NET builds on Microsoft's core businesses, including Windows desktop and server operating systems, enterprise server applications, Microsoft Office, and MSN. Microsoft will offer a range of.NET products and services including Windows.NET--the next generation Windows platform designed with customized applications and services to allow user to control their digital information; MSN.NET--an integrated consumer experience built on the.NET platform to deliver a more integrated and personalized experience; subscription services--a set of consumer-oriented services on the.NET platform that will build on existing Microsoft entertainment, gaming, education, and productivity products; Office.NET-- advanced communications and productivity tools; bCentral.NET-- subscription-based services and tools for small and growing businesses including hosted messaging, commerce services, and customer relationship management services; and Visual Studio.NET--XML-based programming model and tools, fully supported by MSDN and Windows DNA 2000 servers. Manufacturing Microsoft contracts out most of its manufacturing activity to third parties. Outside manufacturers produce various retail software packaged products and hardware peripherals. There are other custom manufacturers Microsoft could use in the event outsourced manufacturing becomes unavailable from current vendors. The Company's remaining manufacturing facilities are located in Puerto Rico and Ireland. The Irish facility and the Puerto Rico facilities manufacture CD- ROMs. Microsoft outsources its manufacturing of packaged 8 products. Quality control tests are performed on purchased parts, CD-ROMs, and other products. The chief materials and components used in Microsoft products include CD-ROMs, books, and multicolor printed materials. The Company is often able to acquire component parts and materials on a volume discount basis. The Company has multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components. The Company's sales mix has shifted to OEM and organizational licenses from packaged products. Also, online distribution of software is increasing. Operations Microsoft manages all product fulfillment, licensing, and logistics services. The Company has regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and the Greater Seattle area. The regional centers support all operations activities, including information processing, vendor management, logistics, and related supporting functions by geographical regions. The regional center in Dublin, Ireland supports the European, African, and Middle East regions, the center in Singapore supports the Asia Pacific region, and the center in the Greater Seattle area supports North and South America. The Company established Microsoft Licensing Incorporated (MSLI) in Reno, Nevada, a wholly owned subsidiary, which manages the Company's OEM and certain organizational licensing operations. Marketing and Distribution The Company's sales and marketing group seeks to build long-term relationships with customers of Microsoft products. The OEM sales group includes the sales force that works with original equipment manufacturers that preinstall Microsoft software on their PCs. In addition to the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing organizations: the South Pacific and Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; and Asia. Finished Goods Channels Distributors and Resellers. The Company licenses and sells its products in the finished goods channels primarily to and through independent non-exclusive distributors and resellers. Distributors include Inacom, Ingram Micro, SoftBank, Tech Data, and Merisel. Resellers include Software Spectrum, Corporate Software & Technology, CompUSA, Software House International, Softmart, ASAP Software Express, and Best Buy. Microsoft has a network of field sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support. Enterprise Accounts. The Microsoft Select program offers flexible software acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially customized to meet the needs of large multinational organizations. Targeted audiences include technology specialists and influential end users in large enterprises. Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with large account resellers. The Microsoft Open program is a licensing program that is targeted for small and medium size organizations. It is available through the reseller channel and offers discounts based on initial purchase volumes. The Microsoft Enterprise Agreement program is a licensing program designed to provide a flexible licensing and service solution tailored to customers making a long- term licensing commitment. The agreements are designed to increase customer satisfaction by simplifying license administration, payment terms, and the contract process. Solution Providers. Microsoft's Solution Providers program is a comprehensive support relationship with independent organizations that provide network and system integration, custom development, training, and technical support for business computing solutions. The program supports system integrators, value-added resellers (VARs), consultants, custom application developers, solution developers, Internet service and hosting organizations, independent content providers, and site builders (companies that build Web sites for other companies), as well as technical support and training organizations. Under this business collaboration strategy, 9 the Company provides sales and product information, development services, early access to Microsoft products, and customer support tools, including priority telephone support, education, and business development support. To ensure high-quality technical services for the Company's products, Microsoft Solution Providers are required to have Microsoft-certified professionals on staff. Microsoft Direct Access is a comprehensive and open program that allows independent technology providers to actively work with Microsoft through the Microsoft Direct Access program online, quarterly briefings, training, and action packs. Certified Professionals. Microsoft receives certification fees through the Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) program, a program that provides credentials for those who have demonstrated in-depth knowledge of at least one Microsoft product. To become an MCP, a candidate must pass a certification exam that provides a valid and reliable measure of technical proficiency and expertise. MCP exams are developed with the input of professionals in the industry and reflect how Microsoft products are used in organizations throughout the world. The exams are administered by independent organizations at more than 1,400 testing centers around the world. MCPs receive access to technical and product information through an MCP Web site, MSDN Online Certified Membership, and invitations to conferences, technical training sessions, and special events. Candidates may pass additional Microsoft certification exams to further qualify their skills with Microsoft BackOffice products, development tools, and desktop applications. Consulting Services. Microsoft Consulting Service assists customers in deploying and using the Company's computer operating systems, applications, and communications products. The group works with Solution Providers and helps create enterprise-wide computing solutions for large corporate accounts. Microsoft Consulting Services also works with technology solutions providers to enable them to offer a wide range of Microsoft product-related services backed by high levels of technical skill and knowledge. International Sales Sites. The Company has established marketing and/or support subsidiaries in more than 70 countries. Product is generally delivered by the Company's owned or outsourced manufacturing operations, which are located in the geographical region in which the product was sold. By organizing geographically, the Company is able to provide service to international channel customers and access to Microsoft professionals located in the same region to serve their specific needs. Subsidiaries have the responsibility for selling products to customers, managing licensing programs, and providing support to all types of customers based in international countries. Notes to Financial Statements--(see Item 8) describe foreign operations and export sales. The Company's international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are subject to certain risks common to foreign operations in general, such as governmental regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Microsoft hedges a portion of its foreign exchange risk. Product Support The Company provides product support coverage options aligned to the customer segments, partner segments, and communities. Coverage options range from standard no-charge toll telephone support to fee-based offerings providing unlimited 800 number telephone and electronic technical support for all Microsoft products 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. Support offerings include the Alliance program, tailored for large enterprises running mission- critical applications on Microsoft platforms; the Premier program for enterprises and technical account managers needing regular managed support; the Authorized Premier Support for all types of businesses who work jointly with Microsoft and Microsoft Certified Support Center (MCSC) providers; and the Professional program for small organizations, developers and OEMs. The Personal program for home users, which provides free online self-help resources and paid assisted phone support. Users have access to troubleshooting "wizards" and Microsoft's KnowledgeBase, an online library of thousands of technical articles that is updated regularly with useful information regarding Microsoft products. Additionally, several support offerings include Microsoft TechNet and Microsoft Developer Network information subscription services. Support personnel are located in various sites in the United States and around the world. Certain support is also supplied by qualified third-party support organizations. 10 As a supplement or alternative to direct support, the Company enhances the third-party support channel by providing Microsoft Certified Solution Providers with education, training, tools, and support. Microsoft Certified Solution Providers include Authorized Training Centers, which offer advanced product education and certification on Microsoft products; and Authorized Support Centers, which provide a wide spectrum of multinational support, multi-vendor support, and integration services. OEM Channel Microsoft operating systems are licensed primarily to OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right to distribute copies of the Company's products with their computing devices, principally PCs. The Company also markets and licenses certain server operating systems, desktop applications, hardware devices, and consumer software programs to OEMs under similar arrangements. In almost all cases, the products are distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering one or more of its products with virtually all of the major PC OEMs, including, Acer, Actebis, Compaq, Dell, eMachines, Fujitsu, Fujitsu Siemens Computers, Gateway, Hewlett Packard, IBM, Micron, NEC, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba. A substantial amount of OEM business is also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume customized PC vendors. Advertising The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms. Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials are targeted to various end-user segments. The Company uses broad consumer media (television, radio, the Internet, and business publications) and trade publications. Microsoft has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs are reimbursed for certain advertising expenditures. The company has also formed an alliance with Best Buy to provide for joint marketing in Best Buy's retail stores, online, and through other vehicles to demonstrate and sell MSN Internet access and connectivity solutions. Customers The Company's customers include consumers, small and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, dotcoms, educational institutions, ISPs, application developers, and OEMs. Most consumers of Microsoft products are individuals in businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and at home. The consumers and organizations obtain Microsoft products primarily through resellers and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their computing hardware. Notes to Financial Statements (see Item 8) quantify customers that represent more than 10% of the Company's revenue. The Company's practice is to ship its products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from its customers and, consequently, backlog is not significant. Competition The software business is intensely competitive and subject to extremely rapid technological change. As the company pursues its largest strategic initiative, Microsoft.NET, the Company could experience more intense competition during the transition from the traditional core businesses to its new products based on the.NET platform. The Company continues to face movements from PC-based applications to server-based applications or Web-based application hosting services, from proprietary software to open source software, and from PCs to Internet-based devices. A number of Microsoft's most significant competitors, including IBM, Sun Microsystems, Oracle, and AOL, are collaborating with one another on various initiatives directed at competing with Microsoft. These initiatives relate in part to efforts to move software from individual PCs to centrally managed servers, which would present significant challenges to the Company's historical business model. Other competitive collaborative efforts also include the development of new platform technologies that are intended to replicate much of the value of Microsoft Windows operating systems. New computing form factors, including non-PC information devices, are gaining popularity and competing with PCs running Microsoft's software products. 11 Microsoft faces formidable competition in these new areas and in all areas of its current business activity, including competition from many companies much larger than Microsoft. The rapid pace of technological change, particularly in the area of Internet platforms and services, continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. The Company also faces relentless competition from software pirates who unlawfully copy and distribute Microsoft's copyrighted software products, depriving the Company of large amounts of revenue on an annual basis. Operating Systems. Microsoft's operating system products face substantial competition from a wide variety of companies. Competitors such as IBM, Apple Computer, Sun Microsystems, and others are vertically integrated in both software development and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they preinstall on computers of their own manufacture. Many of these operating system software products are also licensed to third-party OEMs for preinstallation on their computers. Microsoft's operating system products compete with UNIX-based operating systems from a wide range of companies, including IBM, AT&T, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, The Santa Cruz Operation, and others. Variants of UNIX run on a wide variety of computer platforms and have gained increasing acceptance as desktop operating systems. With an increased attention toward open-source software, the Linux operating system has gained increasing acceptance. Several computer manufacturers preinstall Linux on PC Servers and many leading software developers have written applications that run on Linux. Microsoft Windows operating systems are also threatened by alternative platforms such as those based on Internet browsing software and Java technology promoted by AOL and Sun Microsystems. Business Solutions. The Company competes in the business of providing enterprise-wide computing solutions with several competitors who enjoy a larger share of sales and larger installed bases. Many companies offer operating system software for mainframes and midrange computers, including IBM, Hewlett-Packard, and Sun Microsystems. Since legacy business systems are typically support-intensive, these competitors also offer substantial support services. Software developers that provide competing server applications for PC-based distributed client/server environments include Oracle, IBM, Computer Associates, Sybase, and Informix. There are also several software vendors who offer connectivity servers. As mentioned above, there are numerous companies and organizations that offer Internet and intranet server software, that compete against the Company's business systems. Additionally, IBM has a large installed base of Lotus Notes and cc:Mail, both of which compete with the Company's collaboration and e-mail products. Desktop Applications. The Company's competitors include many software application vendors, such as IBM (Lotus), Oracle, Apple (Filemaker, Inc.), Sun Microsystems, Corel, Qualcomm, and local application developers in Europe and Asia. IBM and Corel have large installed bases with their spreadsheet and word-processor products, respectively, and both have aggressive pricing strategies. Also, IBM and Apple preinstall certain of their application software products on various models of their PCs, competing directly with Microsoft's desktop application software. Additionally, Web-based application hosting services provide an alternative to PC-based applications such as Microsoft Office. Developer Tools. The Company's developer products compete against offerings from Borland, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Sybase, Symantec, and other companies. Consumer Platforms. A wide variety of companies develop operating systems for information appliances, including Palm, Apple, Motorola, 3Com, Psion Software, Sun Microsystems, Microworkz, Be, Inc., WindRiver, Symbian and others. The Company's WebTV offerings and other multimedia consumer products face competitors such as AOL, Oracle, Liberate Technologies, NetChannel, and others. An enormous range of companies, including media conglomerates, telephone companies, cable companies, retailers, hardware manufacturers, and software developers, are competing to make interactive services widely available to the home. E-Commerce. Microsoft competes with many companies in the e-commerce business and its major components, including business-to-consumer, business- to-business, procurement, and supply chain integration. In the development and marketing of Internet and intranet solutions, major commerce software competitors 12 provide many different ranges of products and solutions that compete with Microsoft, including IBM, Oracle, AOL, Sun Microsystems, Broadvision, and many others. Online Services. Microsoft's online services network, MSN, faces formidable competition from AOL (including its CompuServe unit), Yahoo, and a vast array of Web sites and portals that offer content of all types and e-mail, instant messaging, calendaring, chat, and search and shopping services, among other things. In addition, the ease of entry into Internet services has allowed numerous Web-based service companies to build significant businesses in areas such as e-mail, electronic commerce, Web search engines, directories, and information of numerous types. Competitors include AOL, Yahoo, Excite, Lycos, Infoseek, AltaVista, and many others. The Company's MSNBC joint ventures face formidable competition from other 24-hour cable and Internet news organizations such as CNN, CNN Headline News, and Fox News Network. MSNBC also competes with traditional news media such as newspapers, magazines and broadcast TV. Consumer Software and Hardware. The Company's Consumer Group faces smaller, but focused and branded competitors, particularly in the areas of hardware, learning, and entertainment. Consolidation in this area of software development has made certain competitors even stronger. Competitors include Intuit, Electronic Arts, Mattel (The Learning Company), Hasbro, Logitech, Voyager, Cendant, and Dorling Kindersley. Still other competitors own branded content, such as Disney and Lucas Arts. Additionally, PC-based games and the Company's future Xbox compete and will compete head-to-head against games created for proprietary systems such as Nintendo, Sony PlayStation, and Sega. Input devices face substantial competition from computer manufacturers, since computers are typically sold with a keyboard and mouse, and other manufacturers of these devices. The Company's competitive position may be adversely affected by one or more of these factors in the future, particularly in view of the fast pace of technological change in the computing industry. Employees As of June 30, 2000, the Company employed approximately 39,100 people on a full-time basis, 27,000 in the United States and 12,100 internationally. Of the total, 16,000 were in product research and development, 18,200 in sales, marketing, and support, 1,500 in manufacturing and distribution, and 3,400 in finance and administration. Microsoft's success is highly dependent on its ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees is intense in the software industry. To date, the Company believes it has been successful in its efforts to recruit qualified employees, but there is no assurance that it will continue to be as successful in the future. None of the Company's employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes relations with its employees are excellent. Item 2. Properties The Company's corporate offices consist of approximately 6.8 million square feet of office building space located in King County, Washington situated on two sites that total approximately 306 acres of land. The Company recently completed the construction of an office building comprising approximately 145,000 square feet of space and is constructing two buildings with approximately 495,000 square feet of space that will be occupied in the winter of 2002. The Company owns 4.8 million square feet of its corporate campus and leases many buildings in the Puget Sound Region. The Company has leased several buildings totaling approximately 710,000 square feet of space that will be occupied by the fall of 2000. To accommodate expansion needs the Company has an option to purchase 150 acres of land in Issaquah, Washington. The Company leases many sites domestically totaling approximately 2.4 million square feet of office building space. The construction of a 575,000 square foot campus in the San Francisco, California area was recently completed. The Company leases many sites internationally totaling approximately 3.7 million square feet. The Company's European operations center and localization division consist of a 345,000 square foot campus situated on 17 acres 13 in Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland facilities are partially owned by the Company. The Company leases a 45,000 square-foot disk duplication facility in Humacao, Puerto Rico and leases a 36,000 square-foot facility in Singapore for its Asia Pacific operations center. The Company has large office building space leased in the following locations: Tokyo, Japan 343,000 square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany 253,000 square feet; United Kingdom campus 242,000 square feet; Les Ulis, France 229,000 square feet; and Beijing, China 115,000 square feet. The Company's facilities are fully used for current operations of all segments and suitable additional space is available to accommodate expansion needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The information set forth in Notes to Financial Statements--Contingencies on pages 39-41 of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.4. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000. Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of Microsoft as of September 8, 2000 were as follows: Name Age Position with the Company ---- --- ------------------------- William H. Gates........ 44 Chairman of the Board; Chief Software Architect Steven A. Ballmer....... 44 President; Chief Executive Officer Robert J. Herbold....... 58 Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer William H. Neukom....... 58 Executive Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary James E. Allchin........ 48 Group Vice President, Platforms Orlando Ayala Lozano.... 44 Group Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Services Richard E. Belluzzo..... 46 Group Vice President, Personal Services and Devices Paul A. Maritz.......... 45 Group Vice President, Platforms Strategy and Developer Robert L. Muglia........ 40 Group Vice President,.NET Services Jeffrey S. Raikes....... 42 Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services Robert J. Bach.......... 38 Senior Vice President, Home and Retail Brad Chase.............. 40 Senior Vice President, MSN.com David Cole.............. 38 Senior Vice President, Personal Services Platform John G. Connors......... 41 Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois.. 40 Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Jon DeVaan.............. 39 Senior Vice President, TV Service and Platform Paul Flessner........... 41 Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Server Paul H. Gross........... 39 Senior Vice President, Collaboration and Mobility Joachim Kempin.......... 58 Senior Vice President, OEM Michel Lacombe.......... 49 Senior Vice President; Chairman, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Brian MacDonald......... 38 Senior Vice President, Subscription Service Craig Mundie............ 51 Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy Richard F. Rashid....... 48 Senior Vice President, Research Steven J. Sinofsky...... 35 Senior Vice President, Office Brian Valentine......... 40 Senior Vice President, Windows David Vaskevitch........ 47 Senior Vice President, Business Applications Bernard P. Vergnes...... 55 Senior Vice President; Chairman Emeritus, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa 14 Mr. Gates co-founded Microsoft in 1975 and served as its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated in 1981 until January 2000, when he resigned as Chief Executive Officer and took on the position of Chief Software Architect. Mr. Gates has served as Chairman of the Board since the Company's incorporation. Mr. Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company in January 2000. He has been President since July 1998, and prior to that, he had served as Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February 1992. He was Senior Vice President, Systems Software from 1989 to 1992. From 1984 until 1989, Mr. Ballmer served as Vice President, Systems Software. He joined Microsoft in 1980. Mr. Herbold joined Microsoft as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in November 1994. Mr. Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since 1968, with experience in information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, he was P&G's Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. Mr. Neukom was named Executive Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs in October 1999. He had been Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs since February 1994. He joined Microsoft in 1985 as Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs. Mr. Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms in December 1999. He had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March 1999. He was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February 1996, Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division since November 1994, and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division since July 1991. Mr. Allchin joined Microsoft in 1991. Mr. Ayala was named Group Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Services in August 2000. He had been Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas since February 1998 and before holding that position was Vice President of the developing markets of Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. He joined Microsoft in May 1991 as Senior Director of the Latin America Region. Mr. Belluzzo was named Group Vice President, Personal Services and Devices in August 2000. He joined Microsoft as Group Vice President, Consumer and Commence in September 1999. Mr. Belluzzo had been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Silicon Graphics, Inc. since January 1998. Prior to his employment at Silicon Graphics, Inc., Belluzzo was employed by the Hewlett-Packard Company for 22 years, serving since 1995 as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the computer organization. Mr. Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms Strategy and Developer in March 2000. He had been Group Vice President, Developer since March 1999. He was previously Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications since October 1996 and before holding that position was Group Vice President, Platforms since May 1995. Mr. Maritz had been Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy since November 1994 and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February 1992. He had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since 1989. Mr. Maritz joined Microsoft in 1986. On September 13, 2000, Microsoft announced that Mr. Maritz is retiring from the Company, but will continue to serve as a consultant to Microsoft on strategic and business issues. Mr. Muglia was named Group Vice President,.NET Services in August 2000. He had been Group Vice President, Business Productivity since December 1999. He was named Senior Vice President, Business Productivity in March 1999 and was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools in February 1998. He had been Vice President, Server Applications since 1997 and was Vice President, Developer Tools since 1995. He joined Microsoft in January 1988. Mr. Raikes was named Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services in August 2000. He had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July 1998. Before holding that position, he had been Group 15 Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July 1996. He was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America in January 1992 and had been Vice President, Office Systems since 1990. Mr. Raikes joined Microsoft in 1981. Mr. Bach was named Senior Vice President, Home and Retail in March 2000. He had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March 1999. Before holding that position, he had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity since 1996. Mr. Bach joined Microsoft in 1988. Mr. Chase was named Senior Vice President, MSN.com in December 1999. He had been Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since September 1999. Mr. Chase had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March 1999. He was Vice President, Developer Relations and Windows Marketing. Mr. Chase joined Microsoft in July 1987. Mr. Cole was named Senior Vice President, Personal Services Platform in August 2000. He had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December 1999. Before holding that position, he had been Vice President, Consumer Windows since March 1999. He was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. Mr. Cole joined Microsoft in 1986. Mr. Connors was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration, and Chief Financial Officer in December 1999. He had been Vice President, Enterprise since March 1999. Mr. Connors had been Vice President, Information Technology, and Chief Information Officer since July 1996. He joined Microsoft in January 1989. Mr. Courtois was named Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa in July 2000. He had been Vice President, Customer Marketing since July 1998. Before holding that position, he had been Vice President of Microsoft Europe since 1997 and General Manager for Microsoft France since 1994. Mr. Courtois joined Microsoft in 1984. Mr. DeVaan was named Senior Vice President, TV Service and Platform in December 1999. He had been Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since September 1999. Mr. DeVaan had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March 1999. He had been Vice President, Desktop Applications since 1995. Mr. DeVaan joined Microsoft in 1985. Mr. Flessner was named Senior Vice President,.NET Enterprise Server in December 1999. He had been Vice President, Database and Data Access. Since joining the Company, Mr. Flessner's primary responsibilities have been the development of Microsoft's database business. He assumed responsibility for the engineering of Microsoft SQL Server in 1995. He joined Microsoft in 1994. Mr. Gross was named Senior Vice President, Collaboration and Mobility in March 2000. He had been Senior Vice President, Server Applications since December 1999 and Vice President, Server Applications since March 1999. Before holding that position, he had been Vice President, Developer Tools. Mr. Gross joined Microsoft in September 1996. Before joining Microsoft, he was Senior Vice President of Research and Development at Borland International Inc. Mr. Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM in August 1993. He had been Vice President, OEM Sales since 1987. Mr. Kempin joined Microsoft in 1983. Mr. Lacombe is Chairman, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa. He was named Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa in February 1998. He had been President, Microsoft Europe and Senior Vice President, Microsoft since July 1997. He had been Vice President, Europe since September 1995. Mr. Lacombe joined Microsoft in 1983. Mr. MacDonald was named Senior Vice President, Subscription Service in August 2000. He had been Vice President, New Application Technologies since December 1999. Before holding that position, he started and led the team that created the Microsoft Outlook messaging and collaboration client. He joined Microsoft in 1989. 16 Mr. Mundie is Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy. He was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms in February 1996. He was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems in May 1995 and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July 1993. He joined Microsoft as General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology in December 1992. Mr. Rashid was named Senior Vice President, Research in May 2000. He had been Vice President, Research since July 1994. He joined Microsoft in September 1991. Mr. Sinofsky was named Senior Vice President, Office in December 1999. He had been Vice President, Office since December 1998. Mr. Sinofsky joined the Office team in 1994, increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release of the desktop suite. He joined Microsoft in July 1989. Mr. Valentine was named Senior Vice President, Windows in December 1999. He had been Vice President, Business and Enterprise since March 1999. He had been Vice President, Windows since December 1998. Before managing the Windows group, Mr. Valentine managed the server applications division and had been responsible for the Exchange product unit. He joined Microsoft in 1987. Mr. Vaskevitch was named Senior Vice President, Business Applications in March 2000. He had been Senior Vice President, Developer since December 1999. Before holding that position, he had been Vice President, Distributed Applications Platform. He joined Microsoft in 1986. Mr. Vergnes is a Senior Vice President and Chairman Emeritus, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa. He was named President, Microsoft Europe in April 1992. He had been Vice President, Europe since 1989. Mr. Vergnes joined Microsoft in 1983. 17 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters The information set forth on page 43 of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.1. Reference is also made to the information on put warrants described in the notes to financial statements incorporated herein by reference and filed herewith as Exhibit 13.4. All such transactions are exempt from registration under Section 4 (2) of the Securities Act of 1933. Each transaction was privately negotiated and each offeree and purchaser was an accredited investor/qualified institutional buyer. No public offering or public solicitation was used by the registrant in the placement of these securities. On June 2, 2000, the Company issued an aggregate of 37,530 of its common shares pursuant to the acquisition by the Company of substantially all of the assets of NetGames USA, Inc., a Kansas corporation ("NetGames") owned by eleven shareholders. All of the Company common shares issued in this transaction were issued in a non-public offering pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), under Section 4(2) of the 1933 Act. This sale was made without general solicitation or advertising. The Company has filed a Registration Statement on form S-3 covering the resale of such securities. All net proceeds from the sale of such securities will go to the selling shareholders who offer and sell their shares. The Company has not received and will not receive any proceeds from the sale of these common shares other than the assets and liabilities of NetGames. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information set forth on the inside front cover of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.2. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition The information set forth on pages 15-24 of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.3. Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The information set forth on page 23 of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.3. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The following financial statements for the Company and independent auditors' report set forth on pages 14, 25-42, and 45 of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.4.. Income Statements for the three years ended June 30, 2000. Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June 30, 2000. Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1999 and 2000. Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June 30, 2000. Notes to Financial Statements. Independent Auditors' Report Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. 18 PART III Item 10. Directors of the Registrant Information with respect to Directors may be found under the caption "Election of Directors and Management Information" on pages 1 and 2 of the Company's Proxy Statement dated September 8, 2000, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held November 9, 2000 (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information is incorporated herein by reference. Item 11. Executive Compensation The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" on pages 4 through 6 and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" on page 2 is incorporated herein by reference. Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership of Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" on page 3 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" on page 8 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. The information in Notes to Financial Statements--Operational Transactions on pages 38 through 39 of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.4. 19 PART IV Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K (a) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements as set forth under Item 8 of this report on Form 10-K are incorporated herein by reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise included. (b) Reports on Form 8-K The Company filed one report on Form 8-K during the quarter ended June 30, 2000. The Company disclosed that on June 7, 2000, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia entered a Final Judgment and Memorandum and Order in the case United States of America v. Microsoft Corporation. Also, the Company disclosed that on June 13, 2000, it filed a Notice of Appeal and Motion for a Stay of the Judgment Pending Appeal, appealing to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit the Final Judgment and the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law entered on April 3, 2000 finding that Microsoft violated the federal and state antitrust laws. In addition, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit entered an Order on June 13, 2000 agreeing to hear the appeal by the court sitting en banc. (c) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- 3.1 Restated Articles of Incorporation of Microsoft Corporation (1) 3.2 Bylaws of Microsoft Corporation (1) 10.1 Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock Option Plan (2) 10.2 Microsoft Corporation 1981 Stock Option Plan (3) 10.3 Microsoft Corporation 1999 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors (4) 10.4 Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors (5) 10.5 Microsoft Corporation 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan 10.6 Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan 10.7 Trust Agreement dated June 1, 1993 between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank of Washington (6) 10.8 Form of Indemnification Agreement (6) 11. Computation of Earnings Per Share (7) 13.1 Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated by Reference to Page 43 of 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders ("2000 Annual Report") 13.2 Selected Financial Data Incorporated by Reference to the inside front cover of 2000 Annual Report 13.3 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated by Reference to Pages 15-24 of 2000 Annual Report 13.4 Financial Statements Incorporated by Reference to Pages 14, 25-42, and 45 of 2000 Annual Report 21. Subsidiaries of Registrant 23. Independent Auditors' Consent 27. Financial Data Schedule - -------- (1) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1999. (2) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1997. 20 (3) Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 33-37623 on Form S-8. (4) Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 333-91755 on Form S-8. (5) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1994. (6) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1993. (7) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 13.4 filed herein. 21 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Redmond, State of Washington, on September 28, 2000. MICROSOFT CORPORATION /s/ John G. Connors By __________________________________ John G. Connors Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Registrant and in the capacities indicated on September 28, 2000. Signature Title --------- ----- Chairman of the Board of Directors and ______________________________________ Chief Software Architect William H. Gates /s/ Steven A. Ballmer President and Chief Executive Officer ______________________________________ Steven A. Ballmer /s/ Paul G. Allen Director ______________________________________ Paul G. Allen Director ______________________________________ Richard A. Hackborn /s/ David F. Marquardt Director ______________________________________ David F. Marquardt /s/ Ann McLaughlin Director ______________________________________ Ann McLaughlin /s/ Wm. G. Reed, Jr. Director ______________________________________ Wm. G. Reed, Jr. /s/ Jon A. Shirley Director ______________________________________ Jon A. Shirley /s/ John G. Connors Senior Vice President, Finance and ______________________________________ Administration; Chief Financial Officer John G. Connors 22 Exhibit Index Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- 3.1 Restated Articles of Incorporation of Microsoft Corporation (1) 3.2 Bylaws of Microsoft Corporation (1) 10.1 Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock Option Plan (2) 10.2 Microsoft Corporation 1981 Stock Option Plan (3) 10.3 Microsoft Corporation 1999 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors (4) 10.4 Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors (5) 10.5 Microsoft Corporation 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan 10.6 Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan 10.7 Trust Agreement dated June 1, 1993 between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank of Washington (6) 10.8 Form of Indemnification Agreement (6) 11. Computation of Earnings Per Share (7) 13.1 Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated by Reference to Page 43 of 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders ("2000 Annual Report") 13.2 Selected Financial Data Incorporated by Reference to the inside front cover of 2000 Annual Report 13.3 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated by Reference to Pages 15-24 of 2000 Annual Report 13.4 Financial Statements Incorporated by Reference to Pages 14, 25-42, and 45 of 2000 Annual Report 21. Subsidiaries of Registrant 23. Independent Auditors' Consent 27. Financial Data Schedule - -------- (1) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1999. (2) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1997. (3) Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 33-37623 on Form S-8. (4) Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 333-91755 on Form S-8. (5) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1994. (6) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1993. (7) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 13.4 filed herein.