{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS Overview our founders Larry and Sergey wrote the original founders\' letter, "Google not conventional company. not intend become one." That unconventional spirit has been driving force throughout our history, inspiring tackle big problems and invest moonshots, such our long-term opportunities artificial intelligence ( ). continue this work under the leadership Alphabet and Google CEO Sundar Pichai. Alphabet collection businesses — the largest which Google. report Google two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud; also report all non-Google businesses collectively Other Bets. Alphabet\' structure about helping each our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence. Access and technology for everyone The Internet one the world’ most powerful equalizers; propels ideas, people and businesses large and small. Our mission organize the world’ information and make universally accessible and useful relevant today was when were founded . Since then, have evolved from company that helps people find answers company that also helps people get things done. are focused building even more helpful Google for everyone, and aspire give everyone the tools they need increase their knowledge, health, happiness, and success. Google Search helps people find information and make sense the world more natural and intuitive ways, with trillions searches Google every year. YouTube provides people with entertainment, information, and opportunities learn something new. Google Assistant offers the best way get things done seamlessly across different devices, providing intelligent help throughout person\' day, matter where they are. Google Cloud helps customers solve today’ business challenges, improve productivity, reduce costs, and unlock new growth engines. are continually innovating and building new products and features that will help our users, partners, customers, and communities and have invested more than $ billion research and development the last five years support these efforts. Alphabet Inc. Moonshots Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads irrelevance over time, especially technology, where change tends revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought were crazy when acquired YouTube and Android and when launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and safer, popular browser. continue look toward the future and invest for the long term within each our segments. said the original founders\' letter, will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that believe , they are the key our long-term success. The power believe that foundational and transformational technology that will provide compelling and helpful benefits people and society through its capacity assist, complement, empower, and inspire people almost every field human endeavor. information and computer science company, will continue the forefront advancing the frontier . Through our path-breaking and field-defining research and development, responsibly and boldly develop more capable and useful every day. already powers Google’ core products that help billions people every day and has been the foundation our core ads quality systems for years, helping large and small businesses all over the world produce and run effective and efficient campaigns that help grow their businesses. makes possible search new languages, with multiple inputs, such using images and text the same time with the Google App. Some our most popular products Google — including Lens and Translate — were built entirely using artificial intelligence technologies such optical character recognition and machine learning. Google Cloud continues build into numerous solutions that our customers can use develop -powered applications — including processing documents, images, and translation — understand and analyze data more efficiently, and use packaged solutions for variety industries. all these examples, significantly enhances the usefulness and multiplies the value these products and services people and organizations. Our view that now, and more than ever, critical delivering our mission. bring our breakthrough innovations into the real world assist people and benefit society everywhere, are also pursuing further advancements that will help unlock scientific discoveries and tackle humanity\' greatest challenges and opportunities. Privacy and security make priority protect the privacy and security our products, users, and customers, even there are near-term financial consequences. this continuously investing building products that are secure default; strictly upholding responsible data practices that emphasize privacy design; and building easy- -use settings that put people control. are continually enhancing these efforts over time, whether enabling users auto-delete their data, giving them new tools, such Center, control their experience, advancing anti-malware, anti-phishing, and password security features. Google For reporting purposes Google comprises two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud. Google Services Serving our users have always been committed building helpful products that can improve the lives millions people worldwide. Our product innovations are what make our services widely used, and our brand one the most recognized the world. Google Services\' core products and platforms include ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google Play, Search, and YouTube, with broad and growing adoption users around the world. Our products and services have come long way since the company was founded more than two decades ago. Rather than the ten blue links our early search results, users can now get direct answers their questions using their computer mobile device, their own voice, photo, image, making quicker, easier, and more natural find what they are looking for. the searches see every day, % are new. This drive make information more accessible and helpful has led over the years improve the discovery and creation digital content both the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. People are consuming many forms digital content, including watching videos, playing games, listening music, reading books, Alphabet Inc. and using apps. Working with content creators and partners, continue build new ways for people around the world find great digital content. Fueling all these great digital experiences are extraordinary platforms and hardware. That why continue invest platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, and Chrome operating system, well growing our family hardware devices. see tremendous potential for devices helpful and make people\' lives easier combining the best our , software, and hardware. This potential reflected our latest generation hardware products such the new Pixel and Pixel Pro, and the very first Pixel Watch. Creating products that people rely every day journey that are investing for the long-term. How make money have built world-class advertising technologies for advertisers, agencies, and publishers power their digital marketing businesses. Our advertising solutions help millions companies grow their businesses through our wide range products across devices and formats, and aim ensure positive user experiences serving the right ads the right time and building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. Google Services generates revenues primarily delivering both performance and brand advertising that appears Google Search & other properties, YouTube, and Google Network partners\' properties ("Google Network properties"). continue invest both performance and brand advertising and seek improve the measurability advertising advertisers understand the effectiveness their campaigns. • Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click leading direct engagement with advertisers. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. Our ads tools allow performance advertisers create simple text-based ads. • Brand advertising helps enhance users\' awareness and affinity for advertisers\' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types ads specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns. have allocated substantial resources stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users the web. focus creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers many ways, including filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions bad ads from our systems every year, and closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blocklisting them when necessary ensure that ads not fund bad content. continue focus growing revenues beyond advertising, from Google Play, hardware, and YouTube subscriptions, such : • Google Play generates revenues from sales apps and -app purchases. • Hardware generates revenues from sales Fitbit wearable devices, Google Nest home products, and Pixel devices. • YouTube non-advertising generates subscription revenues from services such YouTube Premium and YouTube . Google Cloud Google was company built the cloud, and continue invest our Google Cloud offerings, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace. Google Cloud Platform provides leading technology cybersecurity; data, analytics, , and machine learning; and infrastructure. Our cybersecurity products help customers detect, protect, and respond broad range cybersecurity threats. Our data cloud unifies data lakes, data warehouses, data governance, and advanced machine learning into single platform that can analyze data across any cloud. provide customers open, reliable, and scalable infrastructure that enables them run workloads anywhere — our Cloud, the edge, their data centers. Additionally, Google Workspace\' easy- -use and secure communication and collaboration tools, which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Meet, and more, enable secure hybrid work, boosting productivity and collaboration. Other Bets Across Alphabet are also using technology try solve big problems that affect wide variety industries from improving transportation and health technology exploring solutions address climate change. Alphabet’ investment the portfolio Other Bets includes businesses that are various stages development, ranging from those the & phase those that are the beginning stages commercialization. Our goal for them become thriving, successful businesses. Other Bets operate independent companies and some them have their own Alphabet Inc. boards with independent members and outside investors. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some them are already generating revenue and making important strides their industries. Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale health technology and internet services. Competition Our business characterized rapid change well new and disruptive technologies. face formidable competition every aspect our business, including, among others, from: • general purpose search engines and information services; • vertical search engines and -commerce providers for queries related travel, jobs, and health, which users may navigate directly rather than through Google; • online advertising platforms and networks; • other forms advertising, such billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television our advertisers typically advertise multiple media, both online and offline; • digital content and application platform providers; • providers enterprise cloud services; • companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer hardware products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms; • providers digital video services; • social networks, which users may rely for product service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines; • providers workspace communication and connectivity products; and • digital assistant providers. Competing successfully depends heavily our ability develop and distribute innovative products and technologies the marketplace across our businesses. For example, for advertising, competing successfully depends attracting and retaining: • users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely the basis the relevance our advertising, well the general usefulness, security, and availability our products and services; • advertisers, primarily based our ability generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and deliver their advertisements efficient and effective manner across variety distribution channels; and • content providers, primarily based the quality our advertiser base, our ability help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms our agreements with them. For additional information about competition, see Risk Factors Item this Annual Report Form - . Ongoing Commitment Sustainability believe that every business has the opportunity and obligation protect our planet. Sustainability one our core values Google, and strive build sustainability into everything . have been leader sustainability and climate change since Google’ founding more than years ago. These are some our key achievements over the past two decades: • , became the first major company carbon neutral for our operations. • , became the first major company match % our annual electricity use with renewable energy, which have achieved for five consecutive years. • , issued $ billion sustainability bonds—the largest sustainability green bond issuance any company history the time. The net proceeds from the issuance were used fund environmentally and socially responsible projects the following eight areas: energy efficiency, clean energy, green buildings, clean transportation, circular economy and design, affordable housing, commitment racial equity, and support for small businesses and COVID- crisis response. , had fully allocated the net proceeds from our sustainability bonds outlined our Sustainability Bond Impact Report published . Our sustainability strategy focused three key pillars: accelerating the transition carbon-free energy and circular economy, empowering everyone with technology, and benefiting the people and places where operate. Alphabet Inc. accelerate the transition carbon-free and circular economy, , launched our third decade climate action, and are now working toward new set ambitious goals. , aim : • achieve net-zero emissions across all our operations and value chain, including our consumer hardware products; • become the first major company run carbon-free energy hours day, seven days week, days year; • enable gigawatts new carbon-free energy through investments our key manufacturing regions; and • help more than cities and local governments reduce aggregate gigaton (one billion tons) carbon emissions annually. also aim maximize the reuse finite resources across our operations, products, and supply chains and enable others the same. are committed helping people make more sustainable choices empowering them with technology. introduced eco-friendly routing Google Maps; new features book flights purchase appliances that have lower carbon footprints; and when people come Google Search with questions about climate change, show information from authoritative sources like the United Nations. benefit the people and places where operate, have set goals replenish more water than consume and support water security communities where operate. are focused three areas: enhancing our stewardship water resources across Google offices and data centers; replenishing our water use and improving watershed health and ecosystems water-stressed communities; and sharing technology and tools that help everyone predict, prevent, and recover from water stress. Google remain steadfast our commitment sustainability, and will continue lead and encourage others join improving the health our planet. are proud what have achieved far, and are energized help move the world closer more sustainable and carbon-free future for all. More information our approach sustainability can found our annual sustainability reports, including Google’ Environmental Report. The contents our sustainability reports are not incorporated reference into this Annual Report Form - any other report document file with the SEC. For additional information about risks and uncertainties applicable our commitments attain certain sustainability goals, see Risk Factors Item this Annual Report Form - . Culture and Workforce are company curious, talented, and passionate people. embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration ideas address complex challenges technology and society. Our people are critical for our continued success, work hard create environment where employees can have fulfilling careers, and happy, healthy, and productive. offer industry-leading benefits and programs take care the diverse needs our employees and their families, including opportunities for career growth and development, resources support their financial health, and access excellent healthcare choices. Our competitive compensation programs help attract and retain top candidates, and will continue invest recruiting talented people technical and non-technical roles, and rewarding them well. provide variety high quality training and support managers build and strengthen their capabilities-–ranging from courses for new managers, learning resources that help them provide feedback and manage performance, coaching and individual support. Alphabet are committed making diversity, equity, and inclusion part everything and growing workforce that representative the users serve. More information Google’ approach diversity can found our annual diversity reports, available publicly diversity google. The contents our diversity reports are not incorporated reference into this Annual Report Form - any other report document file with the SEC. December , , Alphabet had , employees. have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations certain countries, and are committed supporting protected labor rights, maintaining open culture, and listening all employees. Supporting healthy and open dialogue central how work, and communicate information about the company through multiple internal channels our employees. When necessary contract with businesses around the world provide specialized services where not have appropriate -house expertise resources, often fields that require specialized training like cafe operations, content moderation, customer support, and physical security. also contract with temporary staffing agencies when need cover short-term leaves, when have spikes business needs, when need quickly incubate Alphabet Inc. special projects. choose our partners and staffing agencies carefully, and review their compliance with Google’ Supplier Code Conduct. continually make improvements promote respectful and positive working environment for everyone — employees, vendors, and temporary staff alike. Government Regulation are subject numerous United States ( .) federal, state, and local, well foreign laws and regulations covering wide variety subjects. Like other companies the technology industry, face heightened scrutiny from both . and foreign governments with respect our compliance with laws and regulations. Many these laws and regulations are evolving and their applicability and scope, interpreted the courts, remain uncertain. Particularly with regard data privacy and security; content moderation; competition; consumer protection; climate change and sustainability; and reporting human capital and diversity, have seen increase new and evolving laws and regulations, well related enforcement actions, being proposed and implemented recent years legislative bodies around the world. Our compliance with these laws and regulations may onerous and could, individually the aggregate, increase our cost doing business, make our products and services less useful, limit our ability pursue certain business models, cause change our business practices, affect our competitive position relative our peers, and otherwise have adverse effect our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. For additional information about government regulation applicable our business, see Risk Factors Item ; Trends Our Business and Financial Effect Part , Item ; and Legal Matters Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . Intellectual Property rely various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions protect our proprietary technology and our brand. have registered, and applied for the registration , . and international trademarks, service marks, domain names, and copyrights. have also filed patent applications the . and foreign countries covering certain our technology, and acquired patent assets supplement our portfolio. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our rights other parties. For additional information, see Risk Factors Item this Annual Report Form - . Available Information Our website located www abc xyz, and our investor relations website located www abc xyz investor. Access our Annual Reports Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments these reports, available via link through our investor relations website, free charge, after file furnish them with the SEC and they are available the SEC\' website. webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events participate host with members the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications news announcements regarding our financial performance and other items that may material interest our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. also share Google news and product updates Google\' Keyword blog https://www blog google/, that may material interest our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code conduct, also available our investor relations website. The contents our websites are not incorporated reference into this Annual Report Form - any other report document file with the SEC, and any references our websites are intended inactive textual references only. ', 'item 1a. ': 'RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited those described below, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results, and affect the trading price our Class and Class stock. Risks Specific our Company generate significant portion our revenues from advertising. Reduced spending advertisers, loss partners, new and existing technologies that block ads online and affect our ability customize ads could harm our business. generated more than % total revenues from online advertising . Many our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content providers can terminate their contracts with any time. These partners may not continue business with not create more value Alphabet Inc. (such increased numbers users customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. Changes our advertising policies and data privacy practices, well changes other companies’ advertising and data privacy practices have the past, and may the future, affect the advertising that are able provide. addition, technologies have been developed that make customized ads more difficult that block the display ads altogether, and some providers online services have integrated these technologies that could potentially impair the availability and functionality third-party digital advertising. Failing provide superior value deliver advertisements effectively and competitively could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. addition, expenditures advertisers tend correlate with overall economic conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions have affected, and may the future affect, the demand for advertising, resulting fluctuations the amounts our advertisers spend advertising, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. face intense competition. not continue innovate and provide products and services that are useful users, customers, and other partners, may not remain competitive, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our business environment rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our businesses face changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions rival products and services. compete successfully, must accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies timely manner. our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure innovate will encompass wider range products and services. must continue invest significant resources & , including through acquisitions, order enhance our technology and new and existing products and services. have many competitors different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies emerging start-ups. Some competitors have longer operating histories and well established relationships various sectors. They can use their experience and resources ways that could affect our competitive position, including making acquisitions, continuing invest heavily & and talent, initiating intellectual property and competition claims (whether not meritorious), and continuing compete for users, advertisers, customers, and content providers. Further, discrepancies enforcement existing laws may enable our lesser known competitors aggressively interpret those laws without commensurate scrutiny, thereby affording them competitive advantages. Our competitors may also able innovate and provide products and services faster than can may foresee the need for products and services before . Our financial condition and operating results may also suffer our products and services are not responsive the evolving needs and desires our users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. new and existing technologies continue develop, competitors and new entrants may able offer experiences that are, that are seen , substantially similar better than ours. These technologies could reduce usage our products and services, and force compete different ways and expend significant resources develop and operate equal better products and services. Competitors’ success providing compelling products and services attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our ongoing investment new businesses, products, services, and technologies inherently risky, and could divert management attention and harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. have invested and expect continue invest new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The investments that are making across our businesses, such , reflect our ongoing efforts innovate and provide products and services that are useful users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. Our investments span wide range industries beyond online advertising. Such investments ultimately may not commercially viable may not result adequate return capital and, pursuing new strategies, may incur unanticipated liabilities. These endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion resources and management attention from current operations and the use alternative investment, governance, compensation structures that may fail adequately align incentives across the company otherwise accomplish their objectives. Within Google Services, continue invest heavily hardware, including our smartphones, home devices, and wearables, which highly competitive market with frequent introduction new products and services, rapid adoption technological advancements competitors, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement performance characteristics, and price and feature sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. There can assurance will able provide hardware that competes effectively. Alphabet Inc. Within Google Cloud, devote significant resources develop and deploy our enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace. are incurring costs build and maintain infrastructure support cloud computing services, invest cybersecurity, and hire talent, particularly support and scale our sales force. the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services. Pricing and delivery models are competitive and constantly evolving, and may not attain sufficient scale and profitability achieve our business objectives. Further, our business with public sector customers may present additional risks, including regulatory compliance risks. For instance, may subject government audits and cost reviews, and any failure comply any deficiencies found may expose legal, financial, and reputational risks. Evolving laws and regulations may require make new capital investments, build new products, and seek partners deliver localized services other countries, and may not able meet sovereign operating requirements. Within Other Bets, are investing significantly the areas health, life sciences, and transportation, among others. These investment areas face intense competition from large, experienced, and well-funded competitors, and our offerings, many which involve the development new and emerging technologies, may not successful, able compete effectively operate sufficient levels profitability. addition, new and evolving products and services, including those that use , require significant investment and raise ethical, technological, legal, regulatory, and other challenges, which may negatively affect our brands and demand for our products and services. Because all these investment areas are inherently risky, assurance can given that such strategies and offerings will successful will not harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and anticipate downward pressure our operating margin the future. Our revenue growth rate could decline over time result number factors, including changes the devices and modalities used access our products and services; changes geographic mix; deceleration declines advertiser spending; competition; customer usage and demand for our products; decreases our pricing our products and services; ongoing product and policy changes; and shifts lower priced products and services. addition, may also experience downward pressure our operating margin resulting from variety factors, such the continued expansion our business into new fields, including products and services such hardware, Google Cloud, and subscription products, well significant investments Other Bets, all which may have margins lower than those generate from advertising. particular, margins our hardware products have had, and may continue have, adverse affect our consolidated margins due pressures pricing and higher cost sales. may also experience downward pressure our operating margins from increasing regulations, increasing competition, and increasing costs for many aspects our business. Further, certain our costs and expenses are generally less variable nature and may not correlate changes revenue. Additionally, conjunction with our efforts -engineer costs, may not able execute these efforts timely manner these efforts may not successful. Due these factors and the evolving nature our business, our historical revenue growth rate and historical operating margin may not indicative our future performance. For additional information, see Trends Our Business and Financial Effect and Revenues and Monetization Metrics Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability protect them could reduce the value our products, services, and brands well affect our ability compete. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for . Various events outside our control pose threat our intellectual property rights, well our products, services, and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not available every country which our products and services are distributed made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts have taken protect our proprietary rights may not sufficient effective. Although seek obtain patent protection for our innovations, possible may not able protect some these innovations. Moreover, may not have adequate patent copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out important. There always the possibility that the scope the protection gained will insufficient that issued patent may deemed invalid unenforceable. also seek maintain certain intellectual property trade secrets. The secrecy such trade secrets and other sensitive information could compromised, which could cause lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there risk that the word “Google” could become commonly used that becomes synonymous with the word “search.” Some courts have ruled that "Google" protectable trademark, but possible that other courts, particularly those outside the ., Alphabet Inc. may reach different determination. this happens, could lose protection for this trademark, which could result other people using the word “Google” refer their own products, thus diminishing our brand. Any significant impairment our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights costly and time consuming. Any increase the unauthorized use our intellectual property could make more expensive business and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our business depends strong brands, and failing maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability expand our base users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our strong brands have significantly contributed the success our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets increases our ability enter new categories and launch new and innovative products and services that better serve the needs our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our brands have been, and may the future , negatively affected number factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared our platforms, data privacy and security issues and developments, and product technical performance failures. For example, fail respond appropriately the sharing misinformation objectionable content our services and products objectionable practices advertisers, otherwise adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence our brands. Furthermore, failure maintain and enhance our brands could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our success will depend largely our ability remain technology leader and continue provide high-quality, trustworthy, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play valuable role range settings. face number manufacturing and supply chain risks that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. face number risks related manufacturing and supply chain management, which could affect our ability supply both our products and our services. rely contract manufacturers manufacture assemble our hardware products and servers and networking equipment used our technical infrastructure, and may supply the contract manufacturers with components assemble the hardware products and equipment. also rely other companies participate the distribution our products and services. Our business could negatively affected are not able engage these companies with the necessary capabilities capacity reasonable terms, those engage fail meet their obligations (whether due financial difficulties other reasons), make adverse changes the pricing other material terms our arrangements with them. have experienced and may the future experience supply shortages, price increases, and longer lead times that could negatively affect our operations, driven raw material, component availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, logistics capacity, inflation, foreign currency exchange rates, tariffs, sanctions and export controls, trade disputes and barriers, geopolitical tensions, armed conflicts, natural disasters pandemics, the effects climate change (such sea level rise, drought, flooding, heat waves, wildfires and resultant air quality effects and power shutoffs associated with wildfire prevention, and increased storm severity), power loss, and significant changes the financial business condition our suppliers. addition, some the components use our technical infrastructure and our hardware products are available from only one limited sources, and may not able find replacement vendors favorable terms the event supply chain disruption. significant supply interruption that affects our vendors could delay critical data center upgrades expansions and delay consumer product availability. may enter into long-term contracts for materials and products that commit significant terms and conditions. may face costs for materials and products that are not consumed due market demand, technological change, changed consumer preferences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because certain our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing minimum purchase requirements, the volume our hardware sales decreases does not reach projected targets, could face increased materials and manufacturing costs other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit manufacture and harm our financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, certain our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect our supply. Our products and services have had, and the future may have, quality issues resulting from design, manufacturing, operations. Sometimes, these issues may caused components purchase from other Alphabet Inc. manufacturers suppliers. the quality our products and services does not meet expectations our products services are defective, could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. require our suppliers and business partners comply with laws and, where applicable, our company policies and practices, such the Google Supplier Code Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance, and intellectual property licensing, but not control them their practices. Violations law unethical business practices could result supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, harm key relationships, and damage our reputation. Their failure procure necessary license rights intellectual property could affect our ability sell our products services and expose litigation financial claims. Interruption , interference with, failure our complex information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability effectively provide our products and services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. The availability our products and services and fulfillment our customer contracts depend the continuing operation our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable damage, interference, interruption from modifications upgrades, terrorist attacks, state-sponsored attacks, natural disasters pandemics, geopolitical tensions armed conflicts, the effects climate change (such sea level rise, drought, flooding, heat waves, wildfires and resultant air quality effects and power shutoffs associated with wildfire prevention, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, software bugs, ransomware attacks, computer denial service attacks, phishing schemes, other attempts harm access our systems. Some our data centers are located areas with high risk major earthquakes other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts vandalism, and, some cases, potential disruptions resulting from problems experienced facility operators disruptions result geopolitical tensions and conflicts happening the area. Some our systems are not fully redundant, and disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence natural disaster pandemic, closure facility, other unanticipated problems affecting our data centers could result lengthy interruptions our service. addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and have contained the past, and may contain the future, errors vulnerabilities, which could result interruptions failure our services systems. Any these incidents could impede prevent from effectively offering products and providing services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our international operations expose additional risks that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our international operations are significant our revenues and net income, and plan continue grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately % our consolidated revenues . addition risks described elsewhere this section, our international operations expose other risks, including the following: • restrictions foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent from repatriating cash earned countries outside the .; • import and export requirements, tariffs, and other market access barriers that may prevent impede from offering products providing services particular market, that could limit our ability source assemblies and finished products from particular market, and may increase our operating costs; • longer payment cycles some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels payment fraud; • evolving foreign policy landscape that may adversely affect our revenues and could subject new regulatory costs and challenges (including new customer requirements), addition other adverse effects that are unable effectively anticipate; • sanctions, export controls, and trade restrictions that limit our ability operate certain jurisdictions comply with local laws, including result geopolitical tensions armed conflicts, such the ongoing conflict Ukraine; • political unrest, conflict, and changes governmental regimes that may adversely affect demand and usage our products and services, may limit the ability for people certain areas access and use our products and services, may impede from offering products providing services particular market; • anti-corruption laws, such the . Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting certain payments government officials, violations which could result civil and criminal penalties; Alphabet Inc. • uncertainty regarding regulatory outcomes and other liabilities, including uncertainty result local laws, insufficient due process, and lack legal precedent; and • different employee employer relationships, existence works councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused distance, language, and cultural differences, making harder business certain jurisdictions. Because conduct business currencies other than . dollars but report our financial results . dollars, have faced, and will continue face, exposure fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. Although hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose additional risks that could harm our financial condition and operating results. are exposed fluctuations the fair values our investments and, some instances, our financial statements incorporate valuation methodologies that are subjective nature resulting fluctuations over time. The fair value our investments may the future , and certain investments have been the past, negatively affected liquidity, credit deterioration losses, performance and financial results the underlying entities, foreign exchange rates, changes interest rates, including changes that may result from the implementation new benchmark rates, the effect new changing regulations, the stock market general, other factors. measure certain our non-marketable equity and debt securities, certain other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled the stock certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired business combination, fair value nonrecurring basis. The determination fair value involves use appropriate valuation methods and certain unobservable inputs, requires management judgment and estimation, and may change over time. adjust the carrying value our non-marketable equity securities fair value for observable transactions identical similar investments the same issuer for impairments. All gains and losses non-marketable equity securities, are recognized other income (expense), which increases the volatility our other income (expense). The unrealized gains and losses record from fair value remeasurements our non-marketable equity securities any particular period may differ significantly from the gains losses ultimately realize such investments. result these factors, the value our investments could decline, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Risks Related our Industry People access the Internet through variety platforms and devices that continue evolve with the advancement technology and user preferences. manufacturers and users not widely adopt versions our products and services developed for these interfaces, our business could harmed. People access the Internet through growing variety devices such desktop computers, mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-activated speakers, wearables, automobiles, and television-streaming devices. Our products and services may less popular some interfaces. Each manufacturer distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not available may only available with limited functionality for our users our advertisers these devices result. Some manufacturers may also elect not include our products their devices. addition, search queries may undertaken via voice-activated search, apps, social media other platforms, which could harm our business. hard predict the challenges may encounter adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. expect continue devote significant resources creating and supporting products and services across multiple platforms and devices. Failing attract and retain substantial number new device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users, failing develop products and technologies that work well new devices and platforms, could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results and ability capture future business opportunities. Data privacy and security concerns relating our technology and our practices could harm our reputation, cause incur significant liability, and deter current and potential users customers from using our products and services. Computer viruses, software bugs defects, security breaches, and attacks our systems could result the improper disclosure and use user data and interference with our users’ and customers’ ability use our products and services, harming our business and reputation. Concerns about, including the adequacy , our practices with regard the collection, use, governance, disclosure, security personal data other data-privacy-related matters, even unfounded, could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our policies and practices may change over time expectations and regulations regarding privacy and data change. Alphabet Inc. Our products and services involve the storage, handling, and transmission proprietary and other sensitive information. Software bugs, theft, misuse, defects, vulnerabilities our products and services, and security breaches expose risk loss improper use and disclosure such information, which could result litigation and other potential liabilities, including regulatory fines and penalties, well reputational harm. Additionally, our products incorporate highly technical and complex technologies, and thus our technologies and software have contained, and are likely the future contain, undetected errors, bugs, and vulnerabilities. have the past discovered, and may the future discover, some errors our software code only after have released the code. Systems and control failures, security breaches, failure comply with our privacy policies, and inadvertent disclosure user data could result government and legal exposure, seriously harm our reputation, brand, and business, and impair our ability attract and retain users customers. Such incidents have occurred the past and may continue occur due the scale and nature our products and services. While there guarantee that such incidents will not cause significant damage, expect continue expend significant resources maintain security protections that limit the effect bugs, theft, misuse, and security vulnerabilities breaches. experience cyber attacks and other attempts gain unauthorized access our systems regular basis. Cyber attacks continue evolve sophistication and volume, and inherently may difficult detect for long periods time. have seen, and will continue see, industry-wide software supply chain vulnerabilities, such the Log4j vulnerability reported December , which could affect our other parties’ systems. expect continue experience such incidents vulnerabilities the future. Our efforts address undesirable activity our platform may also increase the risk retaliatory attack. addition, face the risk cyber attacks nation-states and state-sponsored actors. These attacks may target our customers, particularly our public sector customers (including federal, state, and local governments). Geopolitical tensions armed conflicts, such the ongoing conflict Ukraine, may increase these risks. may experience security issues, whether due employee insider error malfeasance, system errors, vulnerabilities our other parties’ systems. While may not determine some these issues material the time they occur and may remedy them quickly, there guarantee that these issues will not ultimately result significant legal, financial, and reputational harm, including government inquiries, enforcement actions, litigation, and negative publicity. There also guarantee that series issues may not determined material later date the aggregate, even they may not material individually the time their occurrence. Because the techniques used obtain unauthorized access , disable degrade service provided otherwise sabotage systems change frequently and often are recognized only after being launched against target, even taking all reasonable precautions, including those required law, have been unable the past and may continue unable anticipate detect attacks vulnerabilities implement adequate preventative measures. Further, any partners with whom share user other customer information fail implement adequate data-security practices, fail comply with our terms and policies, otherwise suffer network other security breach, our users’ data may improperly accessed, used, disclosed. actual perceived breach our our business partners’ service providers’ security occurs, the market perception the effectiveness our security measures would harmed, could lose users and customers, our trade secrets those our business partners may compromised, and may exposed significant legal and financial risks, including legal claims (which may include class-action litigation) and regulatory actions, fines, and penalties. Any the foregoing consequences could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. While have dedicated significant resources privacy and security incident response capabilities, including dedicated worldwide incident response teams, our response process, particularly during times natural disaster pandemic, may not adequate, may fail accurately assess the severity incident, may not fast enough prevent limit harm, may fail sufficiently remediate incident. result, may suffer significant legal, reputational, financial exposure, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. For additional information, see also our risk factor privacy and data protection regulations under ‘Risks Related Laws, Regulations, and Policies’ below. Our ongoing investments safety, security, and content review will likely continue identify abuse our platforms and misuse user data. addition our efforts prevent and mitigate cyber attacks, are making significant investments safety, security, and review efforts combat misuse our services and unauthorized access user data third parties, including investigation and review platform applications that could access the information users our services. result these efforts, have the past discovered, and may the future discover, incidents unnecessary access misuse user data other undesirable activity third parties. However, may not have discovered, and may the future not discover, all such incidents activity, whether result our data limitations, including Alphabet Inc. our lack visibility over our encrypted services, the scale activity our platform, other factors, including factors outside our control such natural disaster pandemic, and may learn such incidents activity via third parties. Such incidents and activities may include the use user data our systems manner inconsistent with our terms, contracts policies, the existence false undesirable user accounts, election interference, improper purchases, activities that threaten people’ safety - off-line, instances spamming, scraping, spreading disinformation. While may not determine some these incidents material the time they occurred and may remedy them quickly, there guarantee that these issues will not ultimately result significant legal, financial, and reputational harm, including government inquiries and enforcement actions, litigation, and negative publicity. There also guarantee that series issues may not determined material later date the aggregate, even they may not material individually the time their occurrence. may also unsuccessful our efforts enforce our policies otherwise prevent remediate any such incidents. Any the foregoing developments may negatively affect user trust and engagement, harm our reputation and brands, require change our business practices ways that harm our business operations, and adversely affect our business and financial results. Any such developments may also subject additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result monetary penalties and damages, divert management’ time and attention, and lead enhanced regulatory oversight. Problematic content our platforms, including low-quality user-generated content, web spam, content farms, and other violations our guidelines could affect the quality our services, which could harm our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. , like others the industry, face violations our content guidelines across our platforms, including sophisticated attempts bad actors manipulate our hosting and advertising systems fraudulently generate revenues, otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine user interest intent. While invest significantly efforts promote high-quality and relevant results and detect and prevent low-quality content and invalid traffic, have been unable and may continue unable detect and prevent all such abuses promote uniformly high-quality content. Many websites violate attempt violate our guidelines, including seeking inappropriately rank higher search results than our search engine\' assessment their relevance and utility would rank them. Such efforts have affected, and may continue affect, the quality content our platforms and lead them display false, misleading, undesirable content. Although English-language web spam our search results has been reduced, and web spam most other languages limited, expect web spammers will continue seek inappropriate ways improve their rankings. continuously combat web spam our search results, including through indexing technology that makes harder for spam-like, less useful web content rank highly. also continue invest and deploy proprietary technology detect and prevent web spam our platforms. also face other challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities low-quality content help them improve their search rankings. are continually launching algorithmic changes designed detect and prevent abuse from low-quality websites. also face other challenges our platforms, including violations our content guidelines involving incidents such attempted election interference, activities that threaten the safety and well-being our users - off-line, and the spreading misinformation disinformation. fail either detect and prevent increase problematic content effectively promote high-quality content, could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information reduce use our platforms, harming our financial condition and operating results. may also subject litigation and regulatory actions, which could result monetary penalties and damages and divert management’ time and attention. Our business depends continued and unimpeded access the Internet and our users. Internet access providers may able restrict, block, degrade, charge for access certain our products and services, which could lead additional expenses and the loss users and advertisers. Our products and services depend the ability our users access the Internet, and certain our products require significant bandwidth work effectively. Currently, this access provided companies that have significant market power the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some these providers have taken, have stated that they may take, measures that could degrade, disrupt, increase the cost user access certain our products restricting prohibiting the use their infrastructure support facilitate our offerings, charging increased fees our users provide our offerings, providing our competitors preferential access. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms discrimination internet access providers; however, substantial uncertainty exists the . and elsewhere regarding such protections. For example, the . Federal Communications Commission repealed net neutrality rules, which could permit Alphabet Inc. internet access providers restrict, block, degrade, charge for access certain our products and services. addition, some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject government-initiated restrictions blockages. These could harm existing key relationships, including with our users, customers, advertisers, and content providers, and impair our ability attract new ones; harm our reputation; and increase costs, thereby negatively affecting our business. Risks Related Laws, Regulations, and Policies are subject variety new, existing, and changing laws and regulations worldwide that could harm our business, and will likely subject even broader scope laws and regulations continue expand our business. are subject numerous . and foreign laws and regulations covering wide variety subjects, and our introduction new businesses, products, services, and technologies will likely continue subject additional laws and regulations. recent years, governments around the world have proposed and adopted large number new laws and regulations relevant the digital economy, particularly the areas data privacy and security, competition, and online content. The costs compliance with these measures are high and are likely increase the future. New changing laws and regulations, new interpretations applications existing laws and regulations manner inconsistent with our practices, have resulted , and may continue result , less useful products and services, altered business practices, limited ability pursue certain business models offer certain products and services, substantial costs, and civil criminal liability. Examples include laws and regulations regarding: • Competition and technology platforms’ business practices: Laws and regulations focused large technology platforms, including the Digital Markets Act the European Union ( ); regulations South Korea and elsewhere that affect Google Play’ billing policies, fees, and business model; well regulations under consideration range jurisdictions. • Data privacy, collection, and processing: Laws and regulations further restricting the collection, processing, and sharing user advertising-related data, including privacy and data protection laws, laws affecting the processing children\' data ( discussed further below), data breach notification laws, and laws limiting data transfers (including data localization laws). • Copyright and other intellectual property : Copyright and related laws, including the Directive Copyright the Digital Single Market and European Economic Area transpositions, which may introduce new licensing regimes, increase liability with respect content uploaded users linked from our platforms, create property rights news publications that could require payments news agencies and publishers. • Content moderation : Various laws covering content moderation and removal, and related disclosure obligations, such the \' Digital Services Act, Florida’ Senate Bill and Texas’ House Bill , and laws and proposed legislation Singapore, Australia, and the United Kingdom that impose penalties for failure remove certain types content require disclosure information about the operation our services and algorithms, which may make harder for services like Google Search and YouTube detect and deal with low-quality, deceptive, harmful content. • Consumer protection : Consumer protection laws, including the ’ New Deal for Consumers, which could result monetary penalties and create range new compliance obligations. addition, the applicability and scope these and other laws and regulations, interpreted the courts, remain uncertain and could interpreted ways that harm our business. For example, rely statutory safe harbors, like those set forth the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section the Communications Decency Act the . and the -Commerce Directive Europe, protect against liability for various linking, caching, ranking, recommending, and hosting activities. Legislation court rulings affecting these safe harbors may adversely affect and may impose significant operational challenges. There are legislative proposals and pending litigation the . (such Gonzalez . Google ), , and around the world that could diminish eliminate safe harbor protection for websites and online platforms. are and may continue subject claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, enforcement actions, consent orders, and other forms regulatory scrutiny and legal liability that could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. are subject claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated our users, goods and services offered advertisers publishers using our platforms, personal injury, and other matters. also are subject variety claims including Alphabet Inc. product warranty, product liability, and consumer protection claims related product defects, among other litigation, and may also subject claims involving health and safety, hazardous materials usage, other environmental effects, service disruptions failures. Claims have been brought, and expect will continue brought, against for defamation, negligence, breaches contract, copyright and trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, torts, privacy rights violations, fraud, other legal theories based the nature and content information available via our services due our involvement hosting, transmitting, marketing, branding, providing access content created third parties. For example, the . Department Justice, various . states, and other plaintiffs have filed several antitrust lawsuits about various aspects our business, including our advertising technologies and practices, the operation and distribution Google Search, and the operation and distribution the Android operating system and Play Store. Other regulatory agencies the . and around the world, including competition enforcers, consumer protection agencies, and data protection authorities, have challenged and may continue challenge our business practices and compliance with laws and regulations. are cooperating with these investigations and defending litigation where appropriate. Various laws, regulations, investigations, enforcement lawsuits, and regulatory actions have the past, and may the future result substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing monitoring and auditing obligations, changes our products and services, alterations our business models and operations, and collateral related civil litigation other adverse consequences, all which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Any these legal proceedings could result legal costs, diversion management resources, negative publicity and other harms our business. Estimating liabilities for our pending litigation complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment, and the amounts are ultimately liable for may exceed our estimates. The resolution one more such proceedings has resulted , and may the future result , additional substantial fines, penalties, injunctions, and other sanctions that could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Privacy, data protection, and data usage regulations are complex and rapidly evolving areas. Any failure alleged failure comply with these laws could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Authorities around the world have adopted and are considering number legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, data usage, and encryption user data. Adverse legal rulings, legislation, regulation have resulted , and may continue result , fines and orders requiring that change our practices, which have had and could continue have adverse effect how provide services, harming our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. These laws and regulations are evolving and subject interpretation, and compliance obligations could cause incur substantial costs harm the quality and operations our products and services ways that harm our business. Examples these laws include: • The General Data Protection Regulation and the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulations, which apply all our activities conducted from establishment the the United Kingdom, respectively, related products and services that offer the United Kingdom users customers, respectively, the monitoring their behavior the the , respectively. • Various state and foreign privacy laws and regulations, such the California Consumer Privacy Act , the California Privacy Rights Act, the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act, the Colorado Privacy Act, the Connecticut Data Privacy Act, and the Utah Consumer Privacy Act, all which give new data privacy rights their respective residents (including, California, private right action the event data breach resulting from our failure implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices) and impose significant obligations controllers and processors consumer data. • State laws governing the processing biometric information, such the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act and the Texas Capture Use Biometric Identifier Act, which impose obligations businesses that collect disclose consumer biometric information. • Various federal, state, and foreign laws governing how companies provide age appropriate experiences children and minors, including the collection and processing children and minor’ data. These include the Children’ Online Privacy Protection Act , the United Kingdom Age-Appropriate Design Code, and the California Age Appropriate Design Code, all which address the use and disclosure the personal data children and minors and impose obligations online services products directed likely accessed children. • The California Internet Things Security Law, which regulates the security data used connection with internet-connected devices. Alphabet Inc. • The ’ Digital Markets Act, which will require -scope companies obtain user consent for combining data across certain products and require search engines share anonymized data with rival companies, among other changes. Further, are subject evolving laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances can transfer, process and receive personal data. Previously available transfer mechanisms, such the - . and the Swiss- . Privacy Shield frameworks, were invalidated , and other bases for data transfer and storage, such Standard Contractual Clauses, remain subject ongoing review ways that may require adapt our existing contractual arrangements. The validity various data transfer mechanisms remains subject legal, regulatory, and political developments both Europe and the ., including the potential adoption the .- Data Privacy Framework. Until the .- Data Privacy Framework adopted the , the legal uncertainty and ongoing enforcement action from supervisory authorities related cross-border transfers personal data, could harm our ability process and transfer personal data outside the European Economic Area and could turn harm our ability provide, and our customers’ ability use, some our products and services. face, and may continue face, intellectual property and other claims that could costly defend, result significant damage awards other costs (including indemnification awards), and limit our ability use certain technologies. , like other internet, technology, and media companies, are frequently subject litigation based allegations infringement other violations intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright, trade secrets, and trademarks. Parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against filing claims . and international courts and the . International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease-and-desist orders. addition, patent-holding companies may frequently seek generate income from patents they have obtained bringing claims against . continue expand our business, the number intellectual property claims against has increased and may continue increase develop and acquire new products, services, and technologies. Adverse results any these lawsuits may include awards monetary damages, costly royalty licensing agreements ( licenses are available all), orders limiting our ability sell our products and services the . elsewhere, including preventing from offering certain features, functionalities, products, services certain jurisdictions. They may also cause change our business practices ways that could result loss revenues for and otherwise harm our business. Many our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require defend against certain intellectual property infringement claims and some cases indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could result increased costs for defending such claims significant damages there were adverse ruling any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use our products, services, and technologies, result injunctions otherwise, which could result loss revenues and harm our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered and our customers arising from intellectual property infringement claims. Furthermore, connection with our divestitures, have agreed, and may the future agree, provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims. Regardless their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming and expensive litigate settle. the extent such claims are successful, they could harm our business, including our product and service offerings, financial condition, and operating results. Expectations relating environmental, social, and governance (ESG) considerations could expose potential liabilities, increased costs, and reputational harm. are subject laws, regulations, and other measures that govern wide range topics, including those related matters beyond our core products and services. For instance, new laws, regulations, policies, and international accords relating ESG matters, including sustainability, climate change, human capital, and diversity, are being developed and formalized Europe, the ., and elsewhere, which may entail specific, target-driven frameworks and disclosure requirements. have implemented robust ESG programs, adopted reporting frameworks and principles, and announced number goals and initiatives. The implementation these goals and initiatives may require considerable investments, and our goals, with all their contingencies, dependencies, and certain cases, reliance third-party verification and performance, are complex and ambitious, may change, and cannot guarantee that will achieve them. Any failure, perceived failure, adhere our public statements, comply fully with developing interpretations ESG laws and regulations, meet evolving and varied stakeholder expectations and standards could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. could subject changes tax rates, the adoption new . international tax legislation, exposure additional tax liabilities. Alphabet Inc. are subject variety taxes and tax collection obligations the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates are affected variety factors, including changes the mix earnings jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, net gains and losses hedges and related transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, decreases our stock price for shares issued employee compensation, changes the valuation our deferred tax assets liabilities, and the application different provisions tax laws changes tax laws, regulations, accounting principles (including changes the interpretation existing laws). Further, are unable fail collect taxes behalf customers, employees and partners the withholding agent, could become liable for taxes that are levied against third parties. are subject regular review and audit both domestic and foreign tax authorities. result, have received, and may the future receive, assessments multiple jurisdictions, various tax-related assertions, such transfer-pricing adjustments permanent-establishment claims. Any adverse outcome such review audit could harm our financial condition and operating results, require adverse changes our business practices, subject additional litigation and regulatory inquiries. addition, the determination our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and often involves uncertainty. Although believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded our financial statements and may affect our financial results the period periods for which such determination made. Furthermore, due shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws, rates various jurisdictions may subject significant changes ways that could harm our financial condition and operating results. Various jurisdictions around the world have enacted are considering revenue-based taxes such digital services taxes and other targeted taxes, which could lead inconsistent and potentially overlapping international tax regimes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development continues advance proposals for modernizing international tax rules. Risks Related Ownership our Stock cannot guarantee that any share repurchase program will fully consummated will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility our stock prices and could diminish our cash reserves. engage share repurchases our Class and Class stock from time time accordance with authorizations from the Board Directors Alphabet. Our repurchase program does not have expiration date and does not obligate Alphabet repurchase any specific dollar amount acquire any specific number shares. Further, our share repurchases could affect our share trading prices, increase their volatility, reduce our cash reserves and may suspended terminated any time, which may result decrease the trading prices our stock. The concentration our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability influence corporate matters. Our Class stock has votes per share, our Class stock has one vote per share, and our Class stock has voting rights. December , , Larry Page and Sergey Brin beneficially owned approximately % our outstanding Class stock, which represented approximately % the voting power our outstanding common stock. Through their stock ownership, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election directors and significant corporate transactions, such merger other sale our company our assets, for the foreseeable future. addition, because our Class stock carries voting rights (except required applicable law), the issuance the Class stock, including future stock-based acquisition transactions and fund employee equity incentive programs, could continue Larry and Sergey’ current relative voting power and their ability elect all our directors and determine the outcome most matters submitted vote our stockholders. The share repurchases made pursuant our repurchase program may also affect Larry and Sergey’ relative voting power. This concentrated control limits severely restricts other stockholders’ ability influence corporate matters and may take actions that some our stockholders not view beneficial, which could reduce the market price our Class stock and our Class stock. Provisions our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions Alphabet’ certificate incorporation and bylaws may have the effect delaying preventing change control changes our management. These provisions include the following: • Our Board Directors has the right elect directors fill vacancy created the expansion the Board Directors the resignation, death, removal director. • Our stockholders may not act written consent, which makes difficult take certain actions without holding stockholders\' meeting. Alphabet Inc. • Our certificate incorporation prohibits cumulative voting the election directors. This limits the ability minority stockholders elect director candidates. • Stockholders must provide advance notice nominate individuals for election the Board Directors propose matters that can acted upon stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage deter potential acquirer from conducting solicitation proxies elect the acquirer\' own slate directors otherwise attempting obtain control our company. • Our Board Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares undesignated preferred stock, which makes possible for our Board Directors issue preferred stock with voting other rights preferences that could impede the success any attempt acquire . Delaware corporation, are also subject certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, corporation may not engage business combination with any holder % more its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years , among other things, the Board Directors has approved the transaction. Our Board Directors could rely Delaware law prevent delay acquisition . The trading price for our Class stock and non-voting Class stock may continue volatile. The trading price our stock has times experienced significant volatility and may continue volatile. addition the factors discussed this report, the trading prices our Class stock and Class stock have fluctuated, and may continue fluctuate widely, response various factors, many which are beyond our control, including, among others, the activities our peers and changes broader economic and political conditions around the world. These broad market and industry factors could harm the market price our Class stock and our Class stock, regardless our actual operating performance. General Risks The continuing effects the COVID- pandemic and its impact are highly unpredictable and could significant, and could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our business, operations and financial performance have been, and may continue , affected the macroeconomic impacts resulting from COVID- , and result, our revenue growth rate and expenses percentage our revenues future periods may differ significantly from our historical rates, and our future operating results may fall below expectations. The extent which our business will continue affected will depend variety factors, many which are outside our control, including the persistence the pandemic, impacts economic activity, and the possibility recession continued financial market instability. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult predict and could cause our results fall short expectations. Our operating results have fluctuated, and may the future fluctuate, result number factors, many outside our control, including the cyclicality and seasonality our business and geopolitical events. result, comparing our operating results (including our expenses percentage our revenues) period- -period basis may not meaningful, and our past results should not relied indication our future performance. Consequently, our operating results future quarters may fall below expectations. Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures are important elements our overall corporate strategy and use capital, and these transactions could material our financial condition and operating results. expect continue evaluate and enter into discussions regarding wide array such potential strategic transactions, which could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Some the areas where face risks include: • diversion management time and focus from operating our business challenges related acquisitions and other strategic transactions; • failure obtain required approvals timely basis, all, from governmental authorities, conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay prevent from completing transaction, otherwise restrict our ability realize the expected financial strategic goals transaction; • failure successfully integrate the acquired operations, technologies, services, and personnel (including cultural integration and retention employees) and further develop the acquired business technology; • implementation remediation controls, procedures, and policies the acquired company; Alphabet Inc. • integration the acquired company’ accounting and other administrative systems, and the coordination product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions; • transition operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms; • the case foreign acquisitions, the need integrate operations across different cultures and languages and address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; • failure accomplish commercial, strategic financial objectives with respect investments and joint ventures; • failure realize the value investments and joint ventures due lack liquidity; • liability for activities the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, data privacy and security issues, violations laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, warranty claims, product liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; and • litigation other claims connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, other third parties. Our failure address these risks other problems encountered connection with our past future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause fail realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions could also result dilutive issuances our equity securities, the incurrence debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, impairment goodwill and purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Also, the anticipated benefits value our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. connection with our divestitures, have agreed, and may the future agree, provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. were lose the services key personnel, may not able execute our business strategy. Our future success depends large part upon the continued service key members our senior management team. For instance, Sundar Pichai critical the overall management Alphabet and its subsidiaries and plays important role the development our technology, maintaining our culture, and setting our strategic direction. All our executive officers and key employees are -will employees, and not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss key personnel could harm our business. rely highly skilled personnel and, are unable retain motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, maintain and continue adapt our corporate culture, may not able grow operate effectively. Our performance largely depends the talents and efforts highly skilled individuals. Our ability compete effectively and our future success depends our continuing identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas our organization. Competition our industry for qualified employees intense, and certain our competitors have directly targeted, and may continue target, our employees. addition, our compensation arrangements, such our equity award programs, may not always successful attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Restrictive immigration policy and regulatory changes may also affect our ability hire, mobilize, retain some our global talent. addition, believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. our organization grows and evolves, may need implement more complex organizational management structures adapt our corporate culture and work environments ever-changing circumstances, such during times natural disaster pandemic, and these changes could affect our ability compete effectively have adverse effect our corporate culture. experiment with hybrid work models, may experience increased costs and disruption, addition potential effects our ability operate effectively and maintain our corporate culture. ', 'item 1b. ': 'UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Alphabet Inc. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our headquarters are located Mountain View, California. own and lease office facilities and data centers around the world, primarily North America, Europe, and Asia. believe our existing facilities are good condition and suitable for the conduct our business. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS For description our material pending legal proceedings, see Legal Matters Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - , which incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 4. ': 'MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’ COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES October , , Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer Google Inc. pursuant Rule 12g- ( ) under the Exchange Act. Our Class stock has been listed the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since August , and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April , . Prior August , , there was public market for our stock. Our Class stock neither listed nor traded. Our Class stock has been listed the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since April , . Holders Record December , , there were approximately , and , stockholders record our Class stock and Class stock, respectively. Because many our shares Class stock and Class stock are held brokers and other institutions behalf stockholders, are unable estimate the total number stockholders represented these record holders. December , , there were approximately stockholders record our Class stock. Dividend Policy have never declared paid any cash dividend our common capital stock. The primary use capital continues invest for the long-term growth the business. regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace, and form capital return stockholders. Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The following table presents information with respect Alphabet\' repurchases Class and Class stock during the quarter ended December , : Period Total Number Class Shares Purchased ( thousands) ( ) Total Number Class Shares Purchased ( thousands) ( ) Average Price Paid per Class Share ( ) Average Price Paid per Class Share ( ) Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Programs ( thousands) ( ) Approximate Dollar Value Shares that May Yet Purchased Under the Program ( millions) October - , , $ $ , $ , November - , , $ $ , $ , December - , , $ $ , $ , Total , , , ( ) The repurchases are being executed from time time, subject general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5- plans. The repurchase program does not have expiration date. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for additional information related share repurchases. ( ) Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases. Alphabet Inc. Stock Performance Graphs The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class \' cumulative -year total stockholder return common stock with the cumulative total returns the & index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance $ investment our common stock and each index (with the reinvestment all dividends) from December , December , . The returns shown are based historical results and are not intended suggest future performance. COMPARISON CUMULATIVE -YEAR TOTAL RETURN* ALPHABET INC. CLASS COMMON STOCK Among Alphabet Inc., the & Index, the NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index *$ invested December , stock index, including reinvestment dividends. Copyright © & , division The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. Alphabet Inc. The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class \' cumulative -year total stockholder return capital stock with the cumulative total returns the & index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance $ investment our Class capital stock and each index (with the reinvestment all dividends) from December , December , . The returns shown are based historical results and are not intended suggest future performance. COMPARISON CUMULATIVE -YEAR TOTAL RETURN* ALPHABET INC. CLASS CAPITAL STOCK Among Alphabet Inc., the & Index, the NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index *$ invested December , stock index, including reinvestment dividends. Copyright © & , division The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. ', 'item 6. ': '[Reserved] Alphabet Inc. ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT’ DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS Please read the following discussion and analysis our financial condition and results operations together with “Note about Forward-Looking Statements,” Part , Item "Business," Part , Item "Risk Factors," and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Item this Annual Report Form - . have omitted discussion results where would redundant the discussion previously included Item our Annual Report Form - . Understanding Alphabet’ Financial Results Alphabet collection businesses — the largest which Google. report Google two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud; also report all non-Google businesses collectively Other Bets. For further details our segments, see Part , Item “Business” and Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . Trends Our Business and Financial Effect The following long-term trends have contributed the results our consolidated operations, and anticipate that they will continue affect our future results: • Users\' behaviors and advertising continue shift online the digital economy evolves. The continuing shift from offline online world has contributed the growth our business and our revenues since inception. expect that this shift online world will continue benefit our business and our revenues, although slower pace than have experienced historically, particular after the outsized growth our advertising revenues during the COVID- pandemic. addition, face increasing competition for user engagement and advertisers, which may affect our revenues. • Users continue access our products and services using diverse devices and modalities, which allows for new advertising formats that may benefit our revenues but adversely affect our margins. Our users are accessing the Internet via diverse devices and modalities, such smartphones, wearables, and smart home devices, and want able connected matter where they are what they are doing. are focused expanding our products and services stay front these trends order maintain and grow our business. benefit from advertising revenues generated from different channels, including mobile, and newer advertising formats. The margins from these channels and newer products have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Additionally, the market for particular device type modality matures, our advertising revenues may affected. For example, growth the global smartphone market has slowed due various factors, including increased market saturation developed countries, which can affect our mobile advertising revenues. expect TAC paid our distribution partners and Google Network partners increase our revenues grow and TAC percentage our advertising revenues ("TAC rate") affected changes device mix; geographic mix; partner mix; partner agreement terms; the percentage queries channeled through paid access points; product mix; the relative revenue growth rates advertising revenues from different channels; and revenue share terms. expect these trends continue affect our revenues and put pressure our margins. • online advertising evolves, continue expand our product offerings, which may affect our monetization. interactions between users and advertisers change, and online user behavior evolves, continue expand our product offerings serve these changing needs, which may affect our monetization. For example, revenues from ads YouTube and Google Play monetize lower rate than our traditional search ads. also may develop new products incorporating innovations that could affect our monetization trends. Additionally, when developing new products and services generally focus first user experience before prioritizing monetization. • users developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue increase, and may require continued investments. addition, movements foreign exchange rates affect such revenues. The shift online, well the advent the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside the ., including emerging markets, such India. continue invest heavily and develop localized versions our products and advertising programs relevant our users these markets. This has led trend increased Alphabet Inc. revenues from emerging markets. expect that our results will continue affected our performance these markets, particularly low-cost mobile devices become more available. This trend could affect our revenues developing markets initially monetize lower rate than more mature markets. International revenues represent significant portion our revenues and are subject fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates relative the . dollar. While have foreign exchange risk management program designed reduce our exposure these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect our revenues and earnings. • The revenues that derive from non-advertising products and services are increasing and may adversely affect our margins. Non-advertising revenues have grown over time, and expect this trend continue focus expanding our products and services. The margins these revenues vary significantly and are generally lower than the margins our advertising revenues. particular margins our hardware products adversely affect our consolidated margins due pressures pricing and higher cost sales. • continue serve our users and expand our businesses, will invest heavily operating and capital expenditures. continue make significant research and development investments areas strategic focus seek develop new, innovative offerings and improve our existing offerings across our businesses. also expect continue invest our technical infrastructure, including servers, network equipment, and data centers, support the growth our business and our long-term initiatives, particular support . addition acquisitions and strategic investments contribute the breadth and depth our offerings, expand our expertise engineering and other functional areas, and build strong partnerships around strategic initiatives. For example, September closed the acquisition Mandiant help expand our offerings dynamic cyber defense and response. • face continuing changes regulatory conditions, laws, and public policies, which could affect our business practices and financial results. Changes social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions laws and policies governing wide range topics and related legal matters have resulted fines and caused change our business practices. these global trends continue, our cost doing business may increase, our ability pursue certain business models offer certain products services may limited, and may need change our business practices. Examples include the antitrust complaints filed the . Department Justice and number state Attorneys General; pending litigation the ., , and around the world that could diminish eliminate safe harbor protection for websites and online platforms; and the Digital Markets Act and Digital Services Act Europe and various legislative proposals the . focused large technology platforms. For additional information see Item Risk Factors and Legal Matters Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item . • Our employees are critical our success and expect continue investing them. Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. expect continue hiring talented employees around the globe and provide competitive compensation programs. For additional information see Culture and Workforce Part , Item “Business.” Revenues and Monetization Metrics generate revenues delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide enterprise customers all sizes with infrastructure and platform services well communication and collaboration tools; sales other products and services, such apps and -app purchases, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products. For details how recognize revenue, see Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . addition the long-term trends and their financial effect our business noted above, fluctuations our revenues have been and may continue affected combination factors, including: • changes foreign currency exchange rates; • changes pricing, such those resulting from changes fee structures, discounts, and customer incentives; • general economic conditions and various external dynamics, including geopolitical events, regulations, and other measures and their effect advertiser, consumer, and enterprise spending; • new product and service launches; and Alphabet Inc. • seasonality. Additionally, fluctuations our revenues generated from advertising ("Google advertising"), revenues from other sources ("Google other revenues"), Google Cloud, and Other Bets revenues have been and may continue affected other factors unique each set revenues, described below. Google Services Google Services revenues consist Google advertising well Google other revenues. Google Advertising Google advertising revenues are comprised the following: • Google Search & other, which includes revenues generated Google search properties (including revenues from traffic generated search distribution partners who use Google com their default search browsers, toolbars, etc.), and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play; • YouTube ads, which includes revenues generated YouTube properties; and • Google Network, which includes revenues generated Google Network properties participating AdMob, AdSense, and Google Manager. use certain metrics track how well traffic across various properties monetized relates our advertising revenues: paid clicks and cost-per-click pertain traffic Google Search & other properties, while impressions and cost-per-impression pertain traffic our Google Network properties. Paid clicks represent engagement users and include clicks advertisements end-users Google search properties and other Google owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play. Cost-per-click defined click-driven revenues divided our total number paid clicks and represents the average amount charge advertisers for each engagement users. Impressions include impressions displayed users Google Network properties participating primarily AdMob, AdSense, and Google Manager. Cost-per-impression defined impression-based and click-based revenues divided our total number impressions, and represents the average amount charge advertisers for each impression displayed users. our business evolves, periodically review, refine, and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number paid clicks and the number impressions, and for identifying the revenues generated the corresponding click and impression activity. Fluctuations our advertising revenues, well the change paid clicks and cost-per-click Google Search & other properties and the change impressions and cost-per-impression Google Network properties and the correlation between these items have been and may continue affected additional factors, such : • advertiser competition for keywords; • changes advertising quality, formats, delivery policy; • changes device mix; • seasonal fluctuations internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends, such traditional retail seasonality; and • traffic growth emerging markets compared more mature markets and across various verticals and channels. Google Other Google other revenues are comprised the following: • Google Play, which includes sales apps and -app purchases; • hardware, which includes sales Fitbit wearable devices, Google Nest home products, and Pixel devices; • YouTube non-advertising, which includes subscription revenues from services such YouTube Premium and YouTube ; and • other products and services. Alphabet Inc. Fluctuations our Google other revenues have been and may continue affected additional factors, such changes customer usage and demand, number subscribers, and fluctuations the timing product launches. Google Cloud Google Cloud revenues are comprised the following: • Google Cloud Platform, which includes fees for infrastructure, platform, and other services; • Google Workspace, which includes fees for cloud-based communication and collaboration tools for enterprises, such Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar and Meet; and • other enterprise services. Fluctuations our Google Cloud revenues have been and may continue affected additional factors, such customer usage. Other Bets Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale health technology and internet services. Costs and Expenses Our cost structure has two components: cost revenues and operating expenses. Our operating expenses include costs related & , sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions. Certain our costs and expenses, including those associated with the operation our technical infrastructure well components our operating expenses, are generally less variable nature and may not correlate changes revenue. Cost Revenues Cost revenues comprised TAC and other costs revenues. • TAC includes: ◦ Amounts paid our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers. ◦ Amounts paid Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed their properties. • Other cost revenues includes: ◦ Content acquisition costs, which are payments content providers from whom license video and other content for distribution YouTube and Google Play ( pay fees these content providers based revenues generated flat fee). ◦ Expenses associated with our data centers (including bandwidth, compensation expenses, depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs) well other operations costs (such content review well customer and product support costs). ◦ Inventory and other costs related the hardware sell. TAC percentage revenues generated from ads placed Google Network properties are significantly higher than TAC percentage revenues generated from ads placed Google Search & other properties, because most the advertiser revenues from ads served Google Network properties are paid TAC our Google Network partners. Operating Expenses Operating expenses are generally incurred during our normal course business, which categorize either & , sales and marketing, general and administrative. The main components our & expenses are: • compensation expenses for engineering and technical employees responsible for & related our existing and new products and services; • depreciation; and • third-party services fees primarily relating consulting and outsourced services support our engineering and product development efforts. Alphabet Inc. The main components our sales and marketing expenses are: • compensation expenses for employees engaged sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions; and • spending relating our advertising and promotional activities support our products and services. The main components our general and administrative expenses are: • compensation expenses for employees finance, human resources, information technology, legal, and other administrative support functions; • expenses relating legal matters, including fines and settlements; and • third-party services fees, including audit, consulting, outside legal, and other outsourced administrative services. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily consists interest income (expense), the effect foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net gains (losses) and impairment our marketable and non-marketable securities, performance fees, and income (loss) and impairment from our equity method investments. For additional details, including how account for our investments and factors that can drive fluctuations the value our investments, see Note and Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - well Item , “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes represents the estimated amount federal, state, and foreign income taxes incurred the . and the many jurisdictions which operate. The provision includes the effect reserve provisions and changes reserves that are considered appropriate well the related net interest and penalties. For additional details, including reconciliation the . federal statutory rate our effective tax rate, see Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . Executive Overview The following table summarizes our consolidated financial results ( millions, except for per share information and percentages): Year Ended December , $ Change % Change Consolidated revenues $ , $ , $ , % Change consolidated constant currency revenues ( ) % Cost revenues $ , $ , $ , % Operating expenses $ , $ , $ , % Operating income $ , $ , $ ( , ) ( ) % Operating margin % % ( ) % Other income (expense), net $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) % Net income $ , $ , $ ( , ) ( ) % Diluted EPS $ $ $ ( ) ( ) % ( ) See "Use Non-GAAP Constant Currency Measures" below for details relating our use constant currency information. • Revenues were $ billion, increase % year over year, primarily driven increase Google Services revenues $ billion, %, and increase Google Cloud revenues $ billion, %. • Total constant currency revenues, which exclude the effect hedging, increased % year over year. Alphabet Inc. • Cost revenues was $ billion, increase % year over year, primarily driven increase other costs revenues. • Operating expenses were $ billion, increase % year over year, primarily driven increases compensation expenses due headcount growth, third-party service fees, and advertising and promotional expenses. Other information: • September , , closed the acquisition Mandiant for total purchase price $ billion and added more than , employees. Mandiant\' financial results are reported within Google Cloud the acquisition date. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for additional information. • July , , the company executed -for-one stock split with record date July , , effected the form one-time special stock dividend each share the company\' Class , Class , and Class stock. All prior period references made share per share amounts throughout this Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations prior the effective date have been retroactively adjusted reflect the effects the Stock Split. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for additional information. • Beginning the first quarter , suspended the vast majority our commercial activities Russia and effectively ceased business activities our Russian entity. The ongoing effect these direct actions our financial results was not material. The broader economic effects resulting from the war Ukraine our future financial results may unpredictable. • Repurchases Class and Class shares were $ billion for the year ended December , . See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for additional information. • Operating cash flow was $ billion for the year ended December , . • Capital expenditures, which primarily reflected investments technical infrastructure, were $ billion for the year ended December , . • December , , had , employees. Additionally, looking ahead fiscal year : • January , announced reduction our workforce approximately , roles. expect incur employee severance and related charges $ billion $ billion, the majority which will recognized the first quarter . addition, are taking actions optimize our global office space. result expect incur exit costs relating office space reductions approximately $ billion the first quarter . may incur additional charges the future further evaluate our real estate needs. • January , completed assessment the useful lives our servers and network equipment, resulting change the estimated useful life our servers and certain network equipment six years, which expect result reduction depreciation approximately $ billion for the full fiscal year for assets service December , , recorded primarily cost revenues and & expenses. • critical delivering our mission bringing our breakthrough innovations into the real world, beginning January , will update our segment reporting relating certain Alphabet\' activities. DeepMind, previously reported within Other Bets, will reported part Alphabet\' corporate costs, reflecting its increasing collaboration with Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets. Prior periods will recast conform the revised presentation. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for information relating our segments. Alphabet Inc. Financial Results Revenues The following table presents revenues type ( millions): Year Ended December , Google Search & other $ , $ , YouTube ads , , Google Network , , Google advertising , , Google other , , Google Services total , , Google Cloud , , Other Bets , Hedging gains (losses) , Total revenues $ , $ , Google Services Google advertising revenues Google Search & other Google Search & other revenues increased $ billion from . The growth was driven interrelated factors including increases search queries resulting from growth user adoption and usage, primarily mobile devices; growth advertiser spending; and improvements have made formats and delivery. Growth was adversely affected the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. YouTube ads YouTube ads revenues increased $ million from . The growth was driven our brand advertising products followed direct response products, both which benefited from increased spending our advertisers well improvements formats and delivery. Growth was adversely affected the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. Google Network Google Network revenues increased $ billion from . The growth was primarily driven strength AdSense and AdMob. Growth was adversely affected the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. Monetization Metrics Paid clicks and cost-per-click The following table presents changes paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed percentage) from : Paid clicks change % Cost-per-click change ( ) % Paid clicks increased from driven number interrelated factors, including increase search queries resulting from growth user adoption and usage, primarily mobile devices; growth advertiser spending; and improvements have made formats and delivery. Cost-per-click decreased from driven number interrelated factors including changes device mix, geographic mix, advertiser spending, ongoing product changes, and property mix, well the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. Alphabet Inc. Impressions and cost-per-impression The following table presents changes impressions and cost-per-impression (expressed percentage) from : Impressions change % Cost-per-impression change % Impressions increased from primarily driven Google Manager and AdMob. The increase cost-per-impression from was driven number interrelated factors including ongoing product and policy changes, improvements have made formats and delivery, changes device mix, geographic mix, product mix, and property mix, partially offset the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. Google other revenues Google other revenues increased $ billion from primarily driven growth YouTube non-advertising and hardware revenues, partially offset decrease Google Play revenues. The growth YouTube non-advertising was largely due increase paid subscribers. The growth hardware was primarily driven increased sales Pixel devices. The decrease Google Play revenues was primarily driven the fee structure changes announced well decrease buyer spending. Additionally, the overall increase Google other revenues was adversely affected the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. Google Cloud Google Cloud revenues increased $ billion from . The growth was primarily driven Google Cloud Platform followed Google Workspace offerings. Google Cloud\' infrastructure and platform services were the largest drivers growth Google Cloud Platform. Revenues Geography The following table presents revenues geography percentage revenues, determined based the addresses our customers: Year Ended December , United States % % EMEA % % APAC % % Other Americas % % Hedging gains (losses) % % For further details revenues geography, see Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . Use Non-GAAP Constant Currency Information International revenues, which represent significant portion our revenues, are generally transacted multiple currencies and therefore are affected fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The effect currency exchange rates our business important factor understanding period- -period comparisons. use non-GAAP constant currency revenues ("constant currency revenues") and non-GAAP percentage change constant currency revenues ("percentage change constant currency revenues") for financial and operational decision-making and means evaluate period- -period comparisons. believe the presentation results constant currency basis addition . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results helps improve the ability understand our performance, because excludes the effects foreign currency volatility that are not indicative our core operating results. Constant currency information compares results between periods exchange rates had remained constant period over period. define constant currency revenues revenues excluding the effect foreign exchange rate movements (" Effect") well hedging activities, which are recognized the consolidated level. use constant currency revenues determine the constant currency revenue percentage change year- -year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated translating current period revenues using prior year comparable period exchange rates, well excluding any hedging effects realized the current period. Alphabet Inc. Constant currency revenue percentage change calculated determining the change current period revenues over prior year comparable period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior year comparable period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues both periods. These results should considered addition , not substitute for, results reported accordance with GAAP. Results constant currency basis, present them, may not comparable similarly titled measures used other companies and are not measure performance presented accordance with GAAP. The following table presents the foreign exchange effect international revenues and total revenues ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , % Change from Prior Period Year Ended December , Less Effect Constant Currency Revenues Reported Less Hedging Effect Less Effect Constant Currency Revenues United States $ , $ , $ $ , % % % EMEA , , ( , ) , % ( ) % % APAC , , ( , ) , % ( ) % % Other Americas , , ( ) , % ( ) % % Revenues, excluding hedging effect , , ( , ) , % ( ) % % Hedging gains (losses) , Total revenues ( ) $ , $ , $ , % % ( ) % % ( ) Total constant currency revenues $ billion for increased $ billion compared $ billion revenues, excluding hedging effect for . EMEA revenue growth was unfavorably affected changes foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due the . dollar strengthening relative the Euro and the British pound. APAC revenue growth was unfavorably affected changes foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due the . dollar strengthening relative the Japanese yen and the Australian dollar. Other Americas growth was unfavorably affected changes foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due the . dollar strengthening relative the Argentine peso. Costs and Expenses Cost Revenues The following table presents cost revenues, including TAC ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , TAC $ , $ , Other cost revenues , , Total cost revenues $ , $ , Total cost revenues percentage revenues % % Cost revenues increased $ billion from . The increase was due increase other cost revenues and TAC $ billion and $ billion, respectively. The increase TAC from was due increase TAC paid distribution partners and Google Network partners, primarily driven growth revenues subject TAC. The TAC rate was % both and . The TAC rate Google Search & other revenues and the TAC rate Google Network revenues were both substantially consistent from . The increase other cost revenues from was primarily due increases data center costs and other operations costs well hardware costs. Alphabet Inc. Research and Development The following table presents & expenses ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , Research and development expenses $ , $ , Research and development expenses percentage revenues % % & expenses increased $ billion from primarily driven increase compensation expenses $ billion, largely resulting from % increase average headcount, and increase third-party service fees $ million. Sales and Marketing The following table presents sales and marketing expenses ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , Sales and marketing expenses $ , $ , Sales and marketing expenses percentage revenues % % Sales and marketing expenses increased $ billion from , primarily driven increase compensation expenses $ billion, largely resulting from % increase average headcount, and increase advertising and promotional activities $ billion. General and Administrative The following table presents general and administrative expenses ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , General and administrative expenses $ , $ , General and administrative expenses percentage revenues % % General and administrative expenses increased $ billion from . The increase was primarily driven increase compensation expenses $ billion, largely resulting from % increase average headcount, and increase third-party services fees $ million. addition, there was $ million increase the allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, the prior year comparable period reflected decline the allowance. Segment Profitability The following table presents segment operating income (loss) ( millions). Year Ended December , Operating income (loss): Google Services $ , $ , Google Cloud ( , ) ( , ) Other Bets ( , ) ( , ) Corporate costs, unallocated ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Total income from operations $ , $ , ( ) Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such finance and legal, including certain fines and settlements, well costs associated with certain shared & activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related revenue are included corporate costs and totaled $ million and $ billion and , respectively. Google Services Google Services operating income decreased $ billion from . The decrease operating income was primarily driven increases compensation expenses and TAC, partially offset growth revenues. Alphabet Inc. Google Cloud Google Cloud operating loss decreased $ million from . The decrease operating loss was primarily driven growth revenues, partially offset increase compensation expenses. Other Bets Other Bets operating loss increased $ million from . The increase operating loss was primarily driven increases compensation expenses, partially offset growth revenues. Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents other income (expense), net, ( millions): Year Ended December , Other income (expense), net $ , $ ( , ) Other income (expense), net, decreased $ billion from primarily due changes gains and losses equity securities and performance fees. , $ billion net unrealized losses were recognized marketable equity securities and $ billion net realized losses were recognized debt securities. These losses were partially offset interest income $ billion and reversals previously accrued performance fees related certain investments $ million. , $ billion net unrealized gains were recognized non-marketable equity securities and $ billion interest income was recognized, partially offset $ billion accrued performance fees related certain investments. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for further information. Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents provision for income taxes ( millions, except for effective tax rate): Year Ended December , Income before provision for income taxes $ , $ , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % The effective tax rate decreased from , primarily driven the effects capitalization and amortization & expenses required the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act generating increase the . federal Foreign Derived Intangible Income tax deduction. The decrease was partially offset decrease pre-tax earnings, including countries that have lower statutory rates and decrease the stock-based compensation related tax benefit. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for further information. Financial Condition Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities December , , had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities. equivalents and marketable securities comprised time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, and marketable equity securities. Sources, Uses Cash, and Related Trends Our principal sources liquidity are cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, well the cash flow that generate from operations. The primary use capital continues invest for the long-term growth the business. regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace, and form capital return stockholders. Alphabet Inc. The following table presents our cash flows ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ , Net cash used investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash used financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Cash Provided Operating Activities Our largest source cash provided operations are advertising revenues generated Google Search & other properties, Google Network properties, and YouTube properties. Additionally, generate cash through sales apps and -app purchases, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings and subscription-based products. Our primary uses cash from operating activities include payments distribution and Google Network partners, employees for compensation, and content providers. Other uses cash from operating activities include payments suppliers for hardware, tax authorities for income taxes, and other general corporate expenditures. Net cash provided operating activities decreased from primarily due the net effect increase cash received from revenues, offset increases cash paid for cost revenues and operating expenses and increase tax payments driven the effects capitalization and amortization & expenses beginning required the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Cash Used Investing Activities Cash provided investing activities consists primarily maturities and sales investments marketable and non-marketable securities. Cash used investing activities consists primarily purchases marketable and non-marketable securities, purchases property and equipment, and payments for acquisitions. Net cash used investing activities decreased from result decrease net purchases and maturities and sales marketable securities, partially offset increase purchases property and equipment. Cash Used Financing Activities Cash provided financing activities consists primarily proceeds from issuance debt and proceeds from the sale interest consolidated entities. Cash used financing activities consists primarily repurchases stock, net payments related stock-based award activities, and repayments debt. Net cash used financing activities increased from primarily due increase repurchases stock. Liquidity and Material Cash Requirements expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash flows from operations and financing activities continue sufficient fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities for least the next months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Capital Expenditures and Leases make investments land and buildings for data centers and offices and information technology assets through purchases property and equipment and lease arrangements provide capacity for the growth our services and products. Capital Expenditures Our capital investments property and equipment consist primarily the following major categories: • technical infrastructure, which consists our investments servers and network equipment for computing, storage, and networking requirements for ongoing business activities, including , (collectively referred our information technology assets) and data center land and building construction; and • office facilities, ground- development projects, and building improvements (also referred "fit-outs"). Construction progress consists primarily technical infrastructure and office facilities which have not yet been placed service. The time frame from date purchase placement service these assets may extend from months years. For example, our data center construction projects are generally multi-year projects with multiple Alphabet Inc. phases, where acquire qualified land and buildings, construct buildings, and secure and install information technology assets. During the years ended December , and , spent $ billion and $ billion capital expenditures, respectively. Depreciation our property and equipment commences when the deployment such assets are completed and are ready for our intended use. Land not depreciated. For the years ended December , and , our depreciation and impairment expenses property and equipment were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Leases For the years ended December , and , recognized total operating lease assets $ billion and $ billion, respectively. December , , the amount total future lease payments under operating leases, which had weighted average remaining lease term years, was $ billion, which $ billion short-term. December , , have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future short-term and long-term lease payments $ million and $ billion that are not yet recorded our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between and with non-cancelable lease terms years. For the years ended December , and , our operating lease expenses (including variable lease costs) were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Finance lease costs were not material for the years ended December , and . See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for further information leases. Financing have short-term debt financing program $ billion through the issuance commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. December , , had commercial paper outstanding. December , , had $ billion revolving credit facilities, $ billion expiring April and $ billion expiring April . The interest rates for all credit facilities are determined based formula using certain market rates, well our progress toward the achievement certain sustainability goals . amounts have been borrowed under the credit facilities. December , , had senior unsecured notes outstanding with total carrying value $ billion with short-term and long-term future interest payments $ million and $ billion, respectively. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for further information our debt. primarily utilize contract manufacturers for the assembly our servers used our technical infrastructure and hardware products sell. have agreements where may purchase components directly from suppliers and then supply these components contract manufacturers for use the assembly the servers and hardware products. Certain these arrangements result portion the cash received from and paid the contract manufacturers presented financing activities the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows included Item this Annual Report From - . Share Repurchase Program April , the Board Directors Alphabet authorized the company repurchase $ billion its Class and Class shares. December , , $ billion remains available for Class and Class share repurchases. accordance with the authorization the Board Directors Alphabet, during repurchased and subsequently retired million shares for $ billion. the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired, million shares were Class stock for $ billion and million shares were Class stock for $ billion. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . European Commission Fines , and , the announced decisions that certain actions taken Google infringed European competition law and imposed fines € billion ($ billion June , ), € billion ($ billion June , ), and € billion ($ billion March , ), respectively. September , , the General Court reduced the fine from € billion € billion. subsequently filed appeal the European Court Justice. recognized charge $ billion for the fine, which reduced $ million . While each decision under appeal, included the fines accrued expenses and other current liabilities our Consolidated Balance Sheets provided bank guarantees ( lieu cash payment) for the fines. For Alphabet Inc. further details, see Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . Taxes December , , had short-term and long-term income taxes payable $ billion and $ billion related one-time transition tax payable incurred result the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). permitted the Tax Act, will pay the transition tax annual interest-free installments through . also have taxes payable $ billion primarily related uncertain tax positions December , . Purchase Commitments December , , had material non-cancelable contractual obligations $ billion , which $ billion was short-term. These amounts represent the non-cancelable portion agreements the minimum cancellation fee and are primarily related commitments purchase licenses, technical infrastructure, inventory, and network capacity. For those agreements with variable terms, not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and pricing December , . addition regularly enter into multi-year, non-cancellable agreements purchase renewable energy and energy attributes, such renewable energy certificates. These agreements not include minimum dollar commitment. The amounts paid under these agreements are based the actual volumes generated and are not readily determinable. Critical Accounting Estimates prepare our consolidated financial statements accordance with GAAP. doing , have make estimates and assumptions. Our critical accounting estimates are those estimates that involve significant level uncertainty the time the estimate was made, and changes them have had are reasonably likely have material effect our financial condition results operations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. base our estimates past experience and other assumptions that believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and evaluate these estimates ongoing basis. have reviewed our critical accounting estimates with the Audit and Compliance Committee our Board Directors. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for summary significant accounting policies and the effect our financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Non-Marketable Equity Securities measure certain financial instruments fair value nonrecurring basis, consisting primarily our non-marketable equity securities. These investments are accounted for under the measurement alternative method ("the measurement alternative") and are measured cost, less impairment, subject upward and downward adjustments resulting from observable price changes for identical similar investments the same issuer. These adjustments require quantitative assessments the fair value our securities, which may require the use unobservable inputs. Pricing adjustments are determined using various valuation methodologies and involve the use estimates using the best information available, which may include cash flow projections other available market data. Non-marketable equity securities are also evaluated for impairment, based qualitative factors including the companies\' financial and liquidity position and access capital resources, among others. When indicators impairment exist, prepare quantitative measurements the fair value our equity investments using market approach income approach, which requires judgment and the use unobservable inputs, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data private and public companies, among others. When the quantitative remeasurements fair value indicate impairment exists, write down the investment its current fair value. also have compensation arrangements with payouts based realized returns from certain investments, . performance fees. record compensation expense based the estimated payouts ongoing basis, which may result expense recognized before investment returns are realized and compensation paid and may require the use unobservable inputs. Property and Equipment assess the reasonableness the useful lives our property and equipment periodically well when other changes occur, such when there are changes ongoing business operations, changes the planned use and utilization assets, technological advancements, that could indicate change the period over which expect benefit from the assets. Alphabet Inc. Income Taxes are subject income taxes the . and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Recording uncertain tax position involves various qualitative considerations, including evaluation comparable and resolved tax exposures, applicability tax laws, and likelihood settlement. evaluate uncertain tax positions periodically, considering changes facts and circumstances, such new regulations recent judicial opinions, well the status audit activities taxing authorities. Although believe have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, assurance can given that the final tax outcome these matters will not different. the extent that the final tax outcome these matters different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate the period which such determination made. The provision for income taxes includes the effect reserve provisions and changes reserves that are considered appropriate well the related net interest and penalties. addition, are subject the continuous examination our income tax returns the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against . regularly assess the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments determine the adequacy our provision for income taxes. Loss Contingencies are regularly subject claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated our users, goods and services offered advertisers publishers using our platforms, personal injury consumer protection, and other matters. Certain these matters include speculative claims for substantial indeterminate amounts damages. record liability when believe that probable that loss has been incurred and the amount can reasonably estimated. determine that loss reasonably possible and the loss range loss can estimated, disclose the possible loss Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . evaluate, regular basis, developments our legal matters that could affect the amount liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes our disclosures appropriate. Significant judgment required determine both the likelihood and the estimated amount loss related such matters. Until the final resolution such matters, there may exposure loss excess the amount recorded, and such amounts could material. Change Accounting Estimate January , completed assessment the useful lives our servers and network equipment, resulting change the estimated useful life our servers and certain network equipment six years, which expect result reduction depreciation approximately $ billion for the full fiscal year for assets service December , , recorded primarily cost revenues and & expenses. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for information relating the useful lives our servers and network equipment. ', 'item 7a. ': '', 'item 8. ': '• Our employees are critical our success and expect continue investing them. Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. expect continue hiring talented employees around the globe and provide competitive compensation programs. For additional information see Culture and Workforce Part , Item “Business.” Revenues and Monetization Metrics generate revenues delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide enterprise customers all sizes with infrastructure and platform services well communication and collaboration tools; sales other products and services, such apps and -app purchases, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products. For details how recognize revenue, see Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . addition the long-term trends and their financial effect our business noted above, fluctuations our revenues have been and may continue affected combination factors, including: • changes foreign currency exchange rates; • changes pricing, such those resulting from changes fee structures, discounts, and customer incentives; • general economic conditions and various external dynamics, including geopolitical events, regulations, and other measures and their effect advertiser, consumer, and enterprise spending; • new product and service launches; and Alphabet Inc. • seasonality. Additionally, fluctuations our revenues generated from advertising ("Google advertising"), revenues from other sources ("Google other revenues"), Google Cloud, and Other Bets revenues have been and may continue affected other factors unique each set revenues, described below. Google Services Google Services revenues consist Google advertising well Google other revenues. Google Advertising Google advertising revenues are comprised the following: • Google Search & other, which includes revenues generated Google search properties (including revenues from traffic generated search distribution partners who use Google com their default search browsers, toolbars, etc.), and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play; • YouTube ads, which includes revenues generated YouTube properties; and • Google Network, which includes revenues generated Google Network properties participating AdMob, AdSense, and Google Manager. use certain metrics track how well traffic across various properties monetized relates our advertising revenues: paid clicks and cost-per-click pertain traffic Google Search & other properties, while impressions and cost-per-impression pertain traffic our Google Network properties. Paid clicks represent engagement users and include clicks advertisements end-users Google search properties and other Google owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play. Cost-per-click defined click-driven revenues divided our total number paid clicks and represents the average amount charge advertisers for each engagement users. Impressions include impressions displayed users Google Network properties participating primarily AdMob, AdSense, and Google Manager. Cost-per-impression defined impression-based and click-based revenues divided our total number impressions, and represents the average amount charge advertisers for each impression displayed users. our business evolves, periodically review, refine, and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number paid clicks and the number impressions, and for identifying the revenues generated the corresponding click and impression activity. Fluctuations our advertising revenues, well the change paid clicks and cost-per-click Google Search & other properties and the change impressions and cost-per-impression Google Network properties and the correlation between these items have been and may continue affected additional factors, such : • advertiser competition for keywords; • changes advertising quality, formats, delivery policy; • changes device mix; • seasonal fluctuations internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends, such traditional retail seasonality; and • traffic growth emerging markets compared more mature markets and across various verticals and channels. Google Other Google other revenues are comprised the following: • Google Play, which includes sales apps and -app purchases; • hardware, which includes sales Fitbit wearable devices, Google Nest home products, and Pixel devices; • YouTube non-advertising, which includes subscription revenues from services such YouTube Premium and YouTube ; and • other products and services. Alphabet Inc. Fluctuations our Google other revenues have been and may continue affected additional factors, such changes customer usage and demand, number subscribers, and fluctuations the timing product launches. Google Cloud Google Cloud revenues are comprised the following: • Google Cloud Platform, which includes fees for infrastructure, platform, and other services; • Google Workspace, which includes fees for cloud-based communication and collaboration tools for enterprises, such Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar and Meet; and • other enterprise services. Fluctuations our Google Cloud revenues have been and may continue affected additional factors, such customer usage. Other Bets Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale health technology and internet services. Costs and Expenses Our cost structure has two components: cost revenues and operating expenses. Our operating expenses include costs related & , sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions. Certain our costs and expenses, including those associated with the operation our technical infrastructure well components our operating expenses, are generally less variable nature and may not correlate changes revenue. Cost Revenues Cost revenues comprised TAC and other costs revenues. • TAC includes: ◦ Amounts paid our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers. ◦ Amounts paid Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed their properties. • Other cost revenues includes: ◦ Content acquisition costs, which are payments content providers from whom license video and other content for distribution YouTube and Google Play ( pay fees these content providers based revenues generated flat fee). ◦ Expenses associated with our data centers (including bandwidth, compensation expenses, depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs) well other operations costs (such content review well customer and product support costs). ◦ Inventory and other costs related the hardware sell. TAC percentage revenues generated from ads placed Google Network properties are significantly higher than TAC percentage revenues generated from ads placed Google Search & other properties, because most the advertiser revenues from ads served Google Network properties are paid TAC our Google Network partners. Operating Expenses Operating expenses are generally incurred during our normal course business, which categorize either & , sales and marketing, general and administrative. The main components our & expenses are: • compensation expenses for engineering and technical employees responsible for & related our existing and new products and services; • depreciation; and • third-party services fees primarily relating consulting and outsourced services support our engineering and product development efforts. Alphabet Inc. The main components our sales and marketing expenses are: • compensation expenses for employees engaged sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions; and • spending relating our advertising and promotional activities support our products and services. The main components our general and administrative expenses are: • compensation expenses for employees finance, human resources, information technology, legal, and other administrative support functions; • expenses relating legal matters, including fines and settlements; and • third-party services fees, including audit, consulting, outside legal, and other outsourced administrative services. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily consists interest income (expense), the effect foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net gains (losses) and impairment our marketable and non-marketable securities, performance fees, and income (loss) and impairment from our equity method investments. For additional details, including how account for our investments and factors that can drive fluctuations the value our investments, see Note and Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - well Item , “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes represents the estimated amount federal, state, and foreign income taxes incurred the . and the many jurisdictions which operate. The provision includes the effect reserve provisions and changes reserves that are considered appropriate well the related net interest and penalties. For additional details, including reconciliation the . federal statutory rate our effective tax rate, see Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . Executive Overview The following table summarizes our consolidated financial results ( millions, except for per share information and percentages): Year Ended December , $ Change % Change Consolidated revenues $ , $ , $ , % Change consolidated constant currency revenues ( ) % Cost revenues $ , $ , $ , % Operating expenses $ , $ , $ , % Operating income $ , $ , $ ( , ) ( ) % Operating margin % % ( ) % Other income (expense), net $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) % Net income $ , $ , $ ( , ) ( ) % Diluted EPS $ $ $ ( ) ( ) % ( ) See "Use Non-GAAP Constant Currency Measures" below for details relating our use constant currency information. • Revenues were $ billion, increase % year over year, primarily driven increase Google Services revenues $ billion, %, and increase Google Cloud revenues $ billion, %. • Total constant currency revenues, which exclude the effect hedging, increased % year over year. Alphabet Inc. • Cost revenues was $ billion, increase % year over year, primarily driven increase other costs revenues. • Operating expenses were $ billion, increase % year over year, primarily driven increases compensation expenses due headcount growth, third-party service fees, and advertising and promotional expenses. Other information: • September , , closed the acquisition Mandiant for total purchase price $ billion and added more than , employees. Mandiant\' financial results are reported within Google Cloud the acquisition date. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for additional information. • July , , the company executed -for-one stock split with record date July , , effected the form one-time special stock dividend each share the company\' Class , Class , and Class stock. All prior period references made share per share amounts throughout this Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations prior the effective date have been retroactively adjusted reflect the effects the Stock Split. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for additional information. • Beginning the first quarter , suspended the vast majority our commercial activities Russia and effectively ceased business activities our Russian entity. The ongoing effect these direct actions our financial results was not material. The broader economic effects resulting from the war Ukraine our future financial results may unpredictable. • Repurchases Class and Class shares were $ billion for the year ended December , . See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for additional information. • Operating cash flow was $ billion for the year ended December , . • Capital expenditures, which primarily reflected investments technical infrastructure, were $ billion for the year ended December , . • December , , had , employees. Additionally, looking ahead fiscal year : • January , announced reduction our workforce approximately , roles. expect incur employee severance and related charges $ billion $ billion, the majority which will recognized the first quarter . addition, are taking actions optimize our global office space. result expect incur exit costs relating office space reductions approximately $ billion the first quarter . may incur additional charges the future further evaluate our real estate needs. • January , completed assessment the useful lives our servers and network equipment, resulting change the estimated useful life our servers and certain network equipment six years, which expect result reduction depreciation approximately $ billion for the full fiscal year for assets service December , , recorded primarily cost revenues and & expenses. • critical delivering our mission bringing our breakthrough innovations into the real world, beginning January , will update our segment reporting relating certain Alphabet\' activities. DeepMind, previously reported within Other Bets, will reported part Alphabet\' corporate costs, reflecting its increasing collaboration with Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets. Prior periods will recast conform the revised presentation. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for information relating our segments. Alphabet Inc. Financial Results Revenues The following table presents revenues type ( millions): Year Ended December , Google Search & other $ , $ , YouTube ads , , Google Network , , Google advertising , , Google other , , Google Services total , , Google Cloud , , Other Bets , Hedging gains (losses) , Total revenues $ , $ , Google Services Google advertising revenues Google Search & other Google Search & other revenues increased $ billion from . The growth was driven interrelated factors including increases search queries resulting from growth user adoption and usage, primarily mobile devices; growth advertiser spending; and improvements have made formats and delivery. Growth was adversely affected the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. YouTube ads YouTube ads revenues increased $ million from . The growth was driven our brand advertising products followed direct response products, both which benefited from increased spending our advertisers well improvements formats and delivery. Growth was adversely affected the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. Google Network Google Network revenues increased $ billion from . The growth was primarily driven strength AdSense and AdMob. Growth was adversely affected the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. Monetization Metrics Paid clicks and cost-per-click The following table presents changes paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed percentage) from : Paid clicks change % Cost-per-click change ( ) % Paid clicks increased from driven number interrelated factors, including increase search queries resulting from growth user adoption and usage, primarily mobile devices; growth advertiser spending; and improvements have made formats and delivery. Cost-per-click decreased from driven number interrelated factors including changes device mix, geographic mix, advertiser spending, ongoing product changes, and property mix, well the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. Alphabet Inc. Impressions and cost-per-impression The following table presents changes impressions and cost-per-impression (expressed percentage) from : Impressions change % Cost-per-impression change % Impressions increased from primarily driven Google Manager and AdMob. The increase cost-per-impression from was driven number interrelated factors including ongoing product and policy changes, improvements have made formats and delivery, changes device mix, geographic mix, product mix, and property mix, partially offset the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. Google other revenues Google other revenues increased $ billion from primarily driven growth YouTube non-advertising and hardware revenues, partially offset decrease Google Play revenues. The growth YouTube non-advertising was largely due increase paid subscribers. The growth hardware was primarily driven increased sales Pixel devices. The decrease Google Play revenues was primarily driven the fee structure changes announced well decrease buyer spending. Additionally, the overall increase Google other revenues was adversely affected the unfavorable effect foreign currency exchange rates. Google Cloud Google Cloud revenues increased $ billion from . The growth was primarily driven Google Cloud Platform followed Google Workspace offerings. Google Cloud\' infrastructure and platform services were the largest drivers growth Google Cloud Platform. Revenues Geography The following table presents revenues geography percentage revenues, determined based the addresses our customers: Year Ended December , United States % % EMEA % % APAC % % Other Americas % % Hedging gains (losses) % % For further details revenues geography, see Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . Use Non-GAAP Constant Currency Information International revenues, which represent significant portion our revenues, are generally transacted multiple currencies and therefore are affected fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The effect currency exchange rates our business important factor understanding period- -period comparisons. use non-GAAP constant currency revenues ("constant currency revenues") and non-GAAP percentage change constant currency revenues ("percentage change constant currency revenues") for financial and operational decision-making and means evaluate period- -period comparisons. believe the presentation results constant currency basis addition . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results helps improve the ability understand our performance, because excludes the effects foreign currency volatility that are not indicative our core operating results. Constant currency information compares results between periods exchange rates had remained constant period over period. define constant currency revenues revenues excluding the effect foreign exchange rate movements (" Effect") well hedging activities, which are recognized the consolidated level. use constant currency revenues determine the constant currency revenue percentage change year- -year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated translating current period revenues using prior year comparable period exchange rates, well excluding any hedging effects realized the current period. Alphabet Inc. Constant currency revenue percentage change calculated determining the change current period revenues over prior year comparable period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior year comparable period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues both periods. These results should considered addition , not substitute for, results reported accordance with GAAP. Results constant currency basis, present them, may not comparable similarly titled measures used other companies and are not measure performance presented accordance with GAAP. The following table presents the foreign exchange effect international revenues and total revenues ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , % Change from Prior Period Year Ended December , Less Effect Constant Currency Revenues Reported Less Hedging Effect Less Effect Constant Currency Revenues United States $ , $ , $ $ , % % % EMEA , , ( , ) , % ( ) % % APAC , , ( , ) , % ( ) % % Other Americas , , ( ) , % ( ) % % Revenues, excluding hedging effect , , ( , ) , % ( ) % % Hedging gains (losses) , Total revenues ( ) $ , $ , $ , % % ( ) % % ( ) Total constant currency revenues $ billion for increased $ billion compared $ billion revenues, excluding hedging effect for . EMEA revenue growth was unfavorably affected changes foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due the . dollar strengthening relative the Euro and the British pound. APAC revenue growth was unfavorably affected changes foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due the . dollar strengthening relative the Japanese yen and the Australian dollar. Other Americas growth was unfavorably affected changes foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due the . dollar strengthening relative the Argentine peso. Costs and Expenses Cost Revenues The following table presents cost revenues, including TAC ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , TAC $ , $ , Other cost revenues , , Total cost revenues $ , $ , Total cost revenues percentage revenues % % Cost revenues increased $ billion from . The increase was due increase other cost revenues and TAC $ billion and $ billion, respectively. The increase TAC from was due increase TAC paid distribution partners and Google Network partners, primarily driven growth revenues subject TAC. The TAC rate was % both and . The TAC rate Google Search & other revenues and the TAC rate Google Network revenues were both substantially consistent from . The increase other cost revenues from was primarily due increases data center costs and other operations costs well hardware costs. Alphabet Inc. Research and Development The following table presents & expenses ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , Research and development expenses $ , $ , Research and development expenses percentage revenues % % & expenses increased $ billion from primarily driven increase compensation expenses $ billion, largely resulting from % increase average headcount, and increase third-party service fees $ million. Sales and Marketing The following table presents sales and marketing expenses ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , Sales and marketing expenses $ , $ , Sales and marketing expenses percentage revenues % % Sales and marketing expenses increased $ billion from , primarily driven increase compensation expenses $ billion, largely resulting from % increase average headcount, and increase advertising and promotional activities $ billion. General and Administrative The following table presents general and administrative expenses ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , General and administrative expenses $ , $ , General and administrative expenses percentage revenues % % General and administrative expenses increased $ billion from . The increase was primarily driven increase compensation expenses $ billion, largely resulting from % increase average headcount, and increase third-party services fees $ million. addition, there was $ million increase the allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, the prior year comparable period reflected decline the allowance. Segment Profitability The following table presents segment operating income (loss) ( millions). Year Ended December , Operating income (loss): Google Services $ , $ , Google Cloud ( , ) ( , ) Other Bets ( , ) ( , ) Corporate costs, unallocated ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Total income from operations $ , $ , ( ) Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such finance and legal, including certain fines and settlements, well costs associated with certain shared & activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related revenue are included corporate costs and totaled $ million and $ billion and , respectively. Google Services Google Services operating income decreased $ billion from . The decrease operating income was primarily driven increases compensation expenses and TAC, partially offset growth revenues. Alphabet Inc. Google Cloud Google Cloud operating loss decreased $ million from . The decrease operating loss was primarily driven growth revenues, partially offset increase compensation expenses. Other Bets Other Bets operating loss increased $ million from . The increase operating loss was primarily driven increases compensation expenses, partially offset growth revenues. Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents other income (expense), net, ( millions): Year Ended December , Other income (expense), net $ , $ ( , ) Other income (expense), net, decreased $ billion from primarily due changes gains and losses equity securities and performance fees. , $ billion net unrealized losses were recognized marketable equity securities and $ billion net realized losses were recognized debt securities. These losses were partially offset interest income $ billion and reversals previously accrued performance fees related certain investments $ million. , $ billion net unrealized gains were recognized non-marketable equity securities and $ billion interest income was recognized, partially offset $ billion accrued performance fees related certain investments. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for further information. Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents provision for income taxes ( millions, except for effective tax rate): Year Ended December , Income before provision for income taxes $ , $ , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % The effective tax rate decreased from , primarily driven the effects capitalization and amortization & expenses required the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act generating increase the . federal Foreign Derived Intangible Income tax deduction. The decrease was partially offset decrease pre-tax earnings, including countries that have lower statutory rates and decrease the stock-based compensation related tax benefit. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for further information. Financial Condition Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities December , , had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities. equivalents and marketable securities comprised time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, and marketable equity securities. Sources, Uses Cash, and Related Trends Our principal sources liquidity are cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, well the cash flow that generate from operations. The primary use capital continues invest for the long-term growth the business. regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace, and form capital return stockholders. Alphabet Inc. The following table presents our cash flows ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ , Net cash used investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash used financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Cash Provided Operating Activities Our largest source cash provided operations are advertising revenues generated Google Search & other properties, Google Network properties, and YouTube properties. Additionally, generate cash through sales apps and -app purchases, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings and subscription-based products. Our primary uses cash from operating activities include payments distribution and Google Network partners, employees for compensation, and content providers. Other uses cash from operating activities include payments suppliers for hardware, tax authorities for income taxes, and other general corporate expenditures. Net cash provided operating activities decreased from primarily due the net effect increase cash received from revenues, offset increases cash paid for cost revenues and operating expenses and increase tax payments driven the effects capitalization and amortization & expenses beginning required the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Cash Used Investing Activities Cash provided investing activities consists primarily maturities and sales investments marketable and non-marketable securities. Cash used investing activities consists primarily purchases marketable and non-marketable securities, purchases property and equipment, and payments for acquisitions. Net cash used investing activities decreased from result decrease net purchases and maturities and sales marketable securities, partially offset increase purchases property and equipment. Cash Used Financing Activities Cash provided financing activities consists primarily proceeds from issuance debt and proceeds from the sale interest consolidated entities. Cash used financing activities consists primarily repurchases stock, net payments related stock-based award activities, and repayments debt. Net cash used financing activities increased from primarily due increase repurchases stock. Liquidity and Material Cash Requirements expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash flows from operations and financing activities continue sufficient fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities for least the next months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Capital Expenditures and Leases make investments land and buildings for data centers and offices and information technology assets through purchases property and equipment and lease arrangements provide capacity for the growth our services and products. Capital Expenditures Our capital investments property and equipment consist primarily the following major categories: • technical infrastructure, which consists our investments servers and network equipment for computing, storage, and networking requirements for ongoing business activities, including , (collectively referred our information technology assets) and data center land and building construction; and • office facilities, ground- development projects, and building improvements (also referred "fit-outs"). Construction progress consists primarily technical infrastructure and office facilities which have not yet been placed service. The time frame from date purchase placement service these assets may extend from months years. For example, our data center construction projects are generally multi-year projects with multiple Alphabet Inc. phases, where acquire qualified land and buildings, construct buildings, and secure and install information technology assets. During the years ended December , and , spent $ billion and $ billion capital expenditures, respectively. Depreciation our property and equipment commences when the deployment such assets are completed and are ready for our intended use. Land not depreciated. For the years ended December , and , our depreciation and impairment expenses property and equipment were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Leases For the years ended December , and , recognized total operating lease assets $ billion and $ billion, respectively. December , , the amount total future lease payments under operating leases, which had weighted average remaining lease term years, was $ billion, which $ billion short-term. December , , have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future short-term and long-term lease payments $ million and $ billion that are not yet recorded our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between and with non-cancelable lease terms years. For the years ended December , and , our operating lease expenses (including variable lease costs) were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Finance lease costs were not material for the years ended December , and . See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for further information leases. Financing have short-term debt financing program $ billion through the issuance commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. December , , had commercial paper outstanding. December , , had $ billion revolving credit facilities, $ billion expiring April and $ billion expiring April . The interest rates for all credit facilities are determined based formula using certain market rates, well our progress toward the achievement certain sustainability goals . amounts have been borrowed under the credit facilities. December , , had senior unsecured notes outstanding with total carrying value $ billion with short-term and long-term future interest payments $ million and $ billion, respectively. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for further information our debt. primarily utilize contract manufacturers for the assembly our servers used our technical infrastructure and hardware products sell. have agreements where may purchase components directly from suppliers and then supply these components contract manufacturers for use the assembly the servers and hardware products. Certain these arrangements result portion the cash received from and paid the contract manufacturers presented financing activities the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows included Item this Annual Report From - . Share Repurchase Program April , the Board Directors Alphabet authorized the company repurchase $ billion its Class and Class shares. December , , $ billion remains available for Class and Class share repurchases. accordance with the authorization the Board Directors Alphabet, during repurchased and subsequently retired million shares for $ billion. the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired, million shares were Class stock for $ billion and million shares were Class stock for $ billion. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . European Commission Fines , and , the announced decisions that certain actions taken Google infringed European competition law and imposed fines € billion ($ billion June , ), € billion ($ billion June , ), and € billion ($ billion March , ), respectively. September , , the General Court reduced the fine from € billion € billion. subsequently filed appeal the European Court Justice. recognized charge $ billion for the fine, which reduced $ million . While each decision under appeal, included the fines accrued expenses and other current liabilities our Consolidated Balance Sheets provided bank guarantees ( lieu cash payment) for the fines. For Alphabet Inc. further details, see Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . Taxes December , , had short-term and long-term income taxes payable $ billion and $ billion related one-time transition tax payable incurred result the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). permitted the Tax Act, will pay the transition tax annual interest-free installments through . also have taxes payable $ billion primarily related uncertain tax positions December , . Purchase Commitments December , , had material non-cancelable contractual obligations $ billion , which $ billion was short-term. These amounts represent the non-cancelable portion agreements the minimum cancellation fee and are primarily related commitments purchase licenses, technical infrastructure, inventory, and network capacity. For those agreements with variable terms, not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and pricing December , . addition regularly enter into multi-year, non-cancellable agreements purchase renewable energy and energy attributes, such renewable energy certificates. These agreements not include minimum dollar commitment. The amounts paid under these agreements are based the actual volumes generated and are not readily determinable. Critical Accounting Estimates prepare our consolidated financial statements accordance with GAAP. doing , have make estimates and assumptions. Our critical accounting estimates are those estimates that involve significant level uncertainty the time the estimate was made, and changes them have had are reasonably likely have material effect our financial condition results operations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. base our estimates past experience and other assumptions that believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and evaluate these estimates ongoing basis. have reviewed our critical accounting estimates with the Audit and Compliance Committee our Board Directors. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for summary significant accounting policies and the effect our financial statements. Fair Value Measurements Non-Marketable Equity Securities measure certain financial instruments fair value nonrecurring basis, consisting primarily our non-marketable equity securities. These investments are accounted for under the measurement alternative method ("the measurement alternative") and are measured cost, less impairment, subject upward and downward adjustments resulting from observable price changes for identical similar investments the same issuer. These adjustments require quantitative assessments the fair value our securities, which may require the use unobservable inputs. Pricing adjustments are determined using various valuation methodologies and involve the use estimates using the best information available, which may include cash flow projections other available market data. Non-marketable equity securities are also evaluated for impairment, based qualitative factors including the companies\' financial and liquidity position and access capital resources, among others. When indicators impairment exist, prepare quantitative measurements the fair value our equity investments using market approach income approach, which requires judgment and the use unobservable inputs, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data private and public companies, among others. When the quantitative remeasurements fair value indicate impairment exists, write down the investment its current fair value. also have compensation arrangements with payouts based realized returns from certain investments, . performance fees. record compensation expense based the estimated payouts ongoing basis, which may result expense recognized before investment returns are realized and compensation paid and may require the use unobservable inputs. Property and Equipment assess the reasonableness the useful lives our property and equipment periodically well when other changes occur, such when there are changes ongoing business operations, changes the planned use and utilization assets, technological advancements, that could indicate change the period over which expect benefit from the assets. Alphabet Inc. Income Taxes are subject income taxes the . and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Recording uncertain tax position involves various qualitative considerations, including evaluation comparable and resolved tax exposures, applicability tax laws, and likelihood settlement. evaluate uncertain tax positions periodically, considering changes facts and circumstances, such new regulations recent judicial opinions, well the status audit activities taxing authorities. Although believe have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, assurance can given that the final tax outcome these matters will not different. the extent that the final tax outcome these matters different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate the period which such determination made. The provision for income taxes includes the effect reserve provisions and changes reserves that are considered appropriate well the related net interest and penalties. addition, are subject the continuous examination our income tax returns the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against . regularly assess the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments determine the adequacy our provision for income taxes. Loss Contingencies are regularly subject claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated our users, goods and services offered advertisers publishers using our platforms, personal injury consumer protection, and other matters. Certain these matters include speculative claims for substantial indeterminate amounts damages. record liability when believe that probable that loss has been incurred and the amount can reasonably estimated. determine that loss reasonably possible and the loss range loss can estimated, disclose the possible loss Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . evaluate, regular basis, developments our legal matters that could affect the amount liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes our disclosures appropriate. Significant judgment required determine both the likelihood and the estimated amount loss related such matters. Until the final resolution such matters, there may exposure loss excess the amount recorded, and such amounts could material. Change Accounting Estimate January , completed assessment the useful lives our servers and network equipment, resulting change the estimated useful life our servers and certain network equipment six years, which expect result reduction depreciation approximately $ billion for the full fiscal year for assets service December , , recorded primarily cost revenues and & expenses. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - for information relating the useful lives our servers and network equipment. ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK are exposed financial market risks, including changes foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity investment risks. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk transact business globally multiple currencies. International revenues, well costs and expenses denominated foreign currencies, expose the risk fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates against the . dollar. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro, and Japanese yen. For the purpose analyzing foreign currency exchange risk, considered the historical trends foreign currency exchange rates and determined that was reasonably possible that adverse changes exchange rates % could experienced. use foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange risk assets and liabilities denominated currencies other than the functional currency the subsidiary. These forward and option contracts reduce, but not entirely eliminate, the effect foreign currency exchange rate movements our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses these assets and liabilities are recorded other income (expense), net, which are offset the gains and losses the forward and option contracts. Alphabet Inc. adverse % foreign currency exchange rate change was applied total monetary assets, liabilities, and commitments denominated currencies other than the functional currencies the balance sheet date, would have resulted adverse effect income before income taxes approxima tely $ million and $ million December , and , respectively, after consideration the effect foreign exchange contracts place for the years ended December , and . use foreign currency forward and option contracts, including collars ( option strategy comprised combination purchased and written options) protect forecasted . dollar-equivalent earnings from changes foreign currency exchange rates. When the . dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency forward and option contacts reduce the foreign currency losses related our earnings. When the . dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign currency gains related our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but not entirely eliminate, the effect foreign currency exchange rate movements. designate these contracts cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. reflect the gains losses foreign currency spot rate changes component accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and subsequently reclassify them into revenues offset the hedged exposures they occur. the . dollar weakened % December , and , the amount recorded AOCI related our cash flow hedges before tax effect would have been approximately $ billion lower for both December , and . The change the value recorded AOCI would expected offset corresponding foreign currency change forecasted hedged revenues when recognized. use foreign exchange forward contracts designated net investment hedges hedge the foreign currency risks related investment foreign subsidiaries. These forward contracts serve offset the foreign currency translation risk from our foreign operations. the . dollar weakened %, the amount recorded cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) within AOCI related our net investment hedges before tax effect would have been approximately $ million and $ million lower December , and , respectively. The change value recorded CTA would expected offset corresponding foreign currency translation gain loss from our investment foreign subsidiaries. Interest Rate Risk Our Corporate Treasury investment strategy achieve return that ill allow preserve capital and maintain liquidity. invest primarily debt securities, including government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, money market and other funds, time deposits, and interest rate derivatives. policy, limit the amount credit exposure any one issuer. Our investments both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry degree interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted interest rates fall. Unrealized gains losses our marketable debt securities are primarily due interest rate fluctuations compared interest rates the time purchase. For certain fixed and variable rate debt securities, have elected the fair value option for which changes fair value are recorded other income (expense), net. measure securities for which have not elected the fair value option fair value with gains and losses recorded AOCI until the securities are sold, less any expected credit losses. use value- -risk (VaR) analysis determine the potential effect fluctuations interest rates the value our marketable debt security portfolio. The VaR the expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due adverse movements interest rates. use variance covariance VaR model with % confidence interval. The estimated one-day loss fair value marketable debt securities December , and are shown below ( millions): December , -Month Average December , Risk category - interest rate $ $ $ $ Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed December , and due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount changes interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. VaR analysis not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation. Equity Investment Risk Our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are subject wide variety market-related risks that could substantially reduce increase the fair value our holdings. Alphabet Inc. Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks funds and our non-marketable equity securities are investments privately held companies, some which are the startup development stages. record marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method fair value based readily determinable market values, which publicly traded stocks and mutual funds are subject market price volatility, and represent $ billion and $ billion our investments December , and , respectively. hypothetical adverse price change % our December , balance would decrease the fair value marketable equity securities $ million. From time time, may enter into derivatives hedge the market price risk certain our marketable equity securities. Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are adjusted fair value for observable transactions for identical similar investments the same issuer impairment (referred the measurement alternative). The fair value measured the time the observable transaction not necessarily indication the current fair value the balance sheet date. These investments, especially those that are the early stages, are inherently risky because the technologies products these companies have under development are typically the early phases and may never materialize, and they may experience decline financial condition, which could result loss substantial part our investment these companies. Valuations our equity investments private companies are inherently more complex due the lack readily available market data and observable transactions lower valuations could result significant losses. addition, global economic conditions could result additional volatility. The success our investment any private company also typically dependent the likelihood our ability realize appreciation the value investments through liquidity events such public offerings, acquisitions, private sales other market events. Changes the valuation non-marketable equity securities may not directly correlate with changes valuation marketable equity securities. December , and , the carrying value our non-marketable equity securities, which were accounted for under the measurement alternative, was $ billion and $ billion, respectively. The carrying values our equity method investments, which totaled approximately $ billion December , and , generally not fluctuate based market price changes. However, these investments could impaired the carrying value exceeds the fair value and not expected recover. For further information about our equity investments, see Note and Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Item this Annual Report Form - . Alphabet Inc. ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Alphabet Inc. INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page (PCAOB : ) Financial Statements: Alphabet Inc. REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Stockholders and the Board Directors Alphabet Inc. Opinion the Financial Statements have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Alphabet Inc. (the Company) December , and , the related consolidated statements income, comprehensive income, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed the Index Item (collectively referred the “consolidated financial statements”). our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position the Company December , and , and the results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company\' internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework), and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion the Company’ financial statements based our audits. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the . Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement, whether due error fraud. Our audits included performing procedures assess the risks material misstatement the financial statements, whether due error fraud, and performing procedures that respond those risks. Such procedures included examining, test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall presentation the financial statements. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below matter arising from the current period audit the financial statements that was communicated required communicated the audit committee and that: ( ) relates accounts disclosures that are material the financial statements and ( ) involved our especially challenging, subjective complex judgments. The communication the critical audit matter does not alter any way our opinion the consolidated financial statements, taken whole, and are not, communicating the critical audit matter below, providing separate opinion the critical audit matter the account disclosure which relates. Alphabet Inc. Loss Contingencies Description the Matter The Company regularly subject claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated its users, goods and services offered advertisers publishers using their platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. described Note the consolidated financial statements “Commitments and contingencies” such claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders could result adverse consequences. Significant judgment required determine both the likelihood, and the estimated amount, loss related such matters. Auditing management’ accounting for and disclosure loss contingencies from these matters involved challenging and subjective auditor judgment assessing the Company’ evaluation the probability loss, and the estimated amount range loss. How Addressed the Matter Our Audit tested relevant controls over the identified risks associated with management’ accounting for and disclosure these matters. This included controls over management’ assessment the probability incurrence loss and whether the loss range loss was reasonably estimable and the development related disclosures. Our audit procedures included gaining understanding previous rulings issued regulators and the status ongoing lawsuits, reviewing letters addressing the matters from internal and external legal counsel, meeting with internal legal counsel discuss the allegations, and obtaining representation letter from management these matters. also evaluated the Company’ disclosures relation these matters. / / Ernst & Young LLP have served the Company\' auditor since . San Jose, California February , Alphabet Inc. REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Stockholders and the Board Directors Alphabet Inc. Opinion Internal Control Over Financial Reporting have audited Alphabet Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (the COSO criteria). our opinion, Alphabet Inc. (the Company) maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements the Company and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion The Company’ management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management’ Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based our audit. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the . Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations Internal Control Over Financial Reporting company’ internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California February , Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except par value per share amounts) December , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventory , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Non-marketable securities , , Deferred income taxes , , Property and equipment, net , , Operating lease assets , , Intangible assets, net , , Goodwill , , Other non-current assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation and benefits , , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , Accrued revenue share , , Deferred revenue , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt , , Deferred revenue, non-current Income taxes payable, non-current , , Deferred income taxes , Operating lease liabilities , , Other long-term liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies (Note ) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $ par value per share, shares authorized; shares issued and outstanding Class , Class , and Class stock and additional paid- capital, $ par value per share: , shares authorized (Class , , Class , , Class , ); , (Class , , Class , Class , ) and , (Class , , Class , Class , ) shares issued and outstanding , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) Retained earnings , , Total stockholders’ equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS INCOME ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December , Revenues $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost revenues , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Total costs and expenses , , , Income from operations , , , Other income (expense), net , , ( , ) Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Basic net income per share Class , Class , and Class stock $ $ $ Diluted net income per share Class , Class , and Class stock $ $ $ See accompanying notes. Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Year Ended December , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income (loss): Change foreign currency translation adjustment , ( , ) ( , ) Available-for-sale investments: Change net unrealized gains (losses) , ( , ) ( , ) Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included net income ( ) ( ) , Net change, net income tax benefit (expense) $( ), $ , and $ , ( , ) ( , ) Cash flow hedges: Change net unrealized gains (losses) , Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included net income ( ) ( ) ( , ) Net change, net income tax benefit (expense) $ , $( ), and $ ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) Comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY ( millions) Class and Class Common Stock, Class Capital Stock, and Additional Paid- Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Shares Amount Balance December , , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , Stock issued Stock-based compensation expense , , Tax withholding related vesting restricted stock units and other ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases stock ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sale interest consolidated entities , , Net income , , Other comprehensive income (loss) , , Balance December , , , , , Stock issued Stock-based compensation expense , , Tax withholding related vesting restricted stock units and other ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases stock ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sale interest consolidated entities Net income , , Other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) Balance December , , , ( , ) , , Stock issued Stock-based compensation expense , , Tax withholding related vesting restricted stock units and other ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Repurchases stock ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sale interest consolidated entities Net income , , Other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) Balance December , , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , Operating activities Net income $ , $ , $ , Adjustments: Depreciation and impairment property and equipment , , , Amortization and impairment intangible assets Stock-based compensation expense , , , Deferred income taxes , , ( , ) (Gain) loss debt and equity securities, net ( , ) ( , ) , Other , ( ) , Changes assets and liabilities, net effects acquisitions: Accounts receivable, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Income taxes, net , ( ) Other assets ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts payable Accrued expenses and other liabilities , , , Accrued revenue share , , ( ) Deferred revenue Net cash provided operating activities , , , Investing activities Purchases property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities and sales marketable securities , , , Purchases non-marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities and sales non-marketable securities , Acquisitions, net cash acquired, and purchases intangible assets ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Other investing activities , Net cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities Net payments related stock-based award activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from issuance debt, net costs , , , Repayments debt ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from sale interest consolidated entities, net , Net cash used financing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Effect exchange rate changes cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , ( , ) Cash and cash equivalents beginning period , , , Cash and cash equivalents end period $ , $ , $ , Supplemental disclosures cash flow information Cash paid for income taxes, net refunds $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note . Summary Significant Accounting Policies Nature Operations Google was incorporated California September and -incorporated the State Delaware August . , implemented holding company reorganization, and result, Alphabet Inc. ("Alphabet") became the successor issuer Google. generate revenues delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide enterprise customers with infrastructure and platform services well communication and collaboration tools; sales other products and services, such apps and -app purchases, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products. Basis Consolidation The consolidated financial statements Alphabet include the accounts Alphabet and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates Preparation consolidated financial statements conformity with GAAP requires make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates due uncertainties. ongoing basis, evaluate our estimates, including those related the allowance for credit losses; fair values financial instruments, intangible assets, and goodwill; inventory; useful lives intangible assets and property and equipment; income taxes; and contingent liabilities, among others. base our estimates assumptions, both historical and forward looking, that are believed reasonable, and the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. January , completed assessment the useful lives our servers and network equipment and adjusted the estimated useful life our servers from four years six years and the estimated useful life certain network equipment from five years six years . This change accounting estimate effective beginning fiscal year . Stock Split Effected the Form Stock Dividend (“Stock Split”) February , , the company announced that the Board Directors had approved and declared -for-one stock split the form one-time special stock dividend each share the company’ Class , Class , and Class stock. The Stock Split had record date July , and effective date July , . The par value per share our Class , Class , and Class stock remains unchanged $ per share after the Stock Split. All prior period references made share per share amounts the accompanying consolidated financial statements and applicable disclosures prior the effective date have been retroactively adjusted reflect the effects the Stock Split. Revenue Recognition Revenues are recognized when control the promised goods services transferred our customers, and the collectibility amount that expect exchange for those goods services probable. Sales and other similar taxes are excluded from revenues. Advertising Revenues generate advertising revenues primarily delivering advertising : • Google Search and other properties, including revenues from traffic generated search distribution partners who use Google com their default search browsers, toolbars, etc. and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play; • YouTube properties; and • Google Network properties, including revenues from Google Network properties participating AdMob, AdSense, and Google Manager. Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through Google Ads, Google Manager, and Google Marketing Platform, among others. Alphabet Inc. offer advertising delivering both performance and brand advertising. recognize revenues for performance advertising when user engages with the advertisement, such click, view, purchase. For brand advertising, recognize revenues when the displayed, user views the . For ads placed Google Network properties, evaluate whether are the principal ( ., report revenues gross basis) agent ( ., report revenues net basis). Generally, report advertising revenues for ads placed Google Network properties gross basis, that , the amounts billed our customers are recorded revenues, and amounts paid Google Network partners are recorded cost revenues. Where are the principal, control the advertising inventory before transferred our customers. Our control evidenced our sole ability monetize the advertising inventory before transferred our customers and further supported being primarily responsible our customers and having level discretion establishing pricing. Google Cloud Revenues Google Cloud revenues consist revenues from: • Google Cloud Platform, which includes fees for infrastructure, platform, and other services; • Google Workspace, which includes fees for cloud-based communication and collaboration tools for enterprises, such Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, and Meet; and • other enterprise services. Our cloud services are generally provided either consumption subscription basis and may have contract terms longer than year. Revenues related cloud services provided consumption basis are recognized when the customer utilizes the services, based the quantity services consumed. Revenues related cloud services provided subscription basis are recognized ratably over the contract term the customer receives and consumes the benefits the cloud services. Google Other Revenues Google other revenues consist revenues from: • Google Play, which includes sales apps and -app purchases; • hardware, which includes sales Fitbit wearable devices, Google Nest home products, and Pixel devices; • YouTube non-advertising, which includes subscription revenues from services such YouTube Premium and YouTube ; and • other products and services. report revenues from Google Play app sales and -app purchases net basis, because our performance obligation facilitate transaction between app developers and end users, for which earn service fee. Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, allocate revenues each performance obligation based its relative standalone selling price. generally determine standalone selling prices based the prices charged customers. Customer Incentives and Credits Certain customers receive cash-based incentives credits, which are accounted for variable consideration. estimate these amounts based the expected amount provided customers and reduce revenues. believe that there will not significant changes our estimates variable consideration. Sales Commissions expense sales commissions when incurred when the amortization period (the period the expected benefit) one year less. recognize asset for certain sales commissions expect the period benefit these costs exceed one year and recognize the expense over the amortization period. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses. Cost Revenues Cost revenues consists TAC and other costs revenues. • TAC includes: Alphabet Inc. ◦ Amounts paid our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers. ◦ Amounts paid Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed their properties. • Other cost revenues includes: ◦ Content acquisition costs, which are payments content providers from whom license video and other content for distribution YouTube and Google Play ( pay fees these content providers based revenues generated flat fee). ◦ Expenses associated with our data centers (including bandwidth, compensation expenses, depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs) well other operations costs (such content review well customer and product support costs). ◦ Inventory and other costs related the hardware sell. Software Development Costs expense software development costs, including costs develop software products the software component products sold, leased, marketed external users, before technological feasibility reached. Technological feasibility typically reached shortly before the release such products. result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented. Software development costs also include costs develop software used solely meet internal needs and cloud-based applications used deliver our services. capitalize development costs related these software applications once the preliminary project stage complete and probable that the project will completed and the software will used perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented. Stock-based Compensation Stock-based compensation primarily consists Alphabet restricted stock units (RSUs). RSUs are equity classified and measured the fair market value the underlying stock the grant date. recognize RSU expense using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period and account for forfeitures they occur. For RSUs, shares are issued the vesting dates net the applicable statutory income tax withholding paid behalf our employees. result, fewer shares are issued than the number RSUs outstanding, and the income tax withholding recorded reduction additional paid- capital. Additionally, stock-based compensation includes other stock-based awards, such performance stock units (PSUs) that include market conditions and awards that may settled cash the stock certain Other Bets. PSUs and certain Other Bet awards are equity classified and expense recognized over the requisite service period. Certain Other Bet awards are liability classified and remeasured fair value through settlement. The fair value Other Bet awards based the equity valuation the respective Other Bet. Advertising and Promotional Expenses expense advertising and promotional costs the period which they are incurred. For the years ended December , , , and , advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. Performance Fees Performance fees refer compensation arrangements with payouts based realized returns from certain investments. record compensation expense based the estimated payouts ongoing basis, which may result expense recognized before investment returns are realized and compensation paid and may require the use unobservable inputs. Performance fees are recorded component other income (expense), net. Fair Value Measurements Fair value exit price, representing the amount that would received sell asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants. such, fair value market-based measurement that determined based assumptions that market participants would use pricing asset liability. Assets and Alphabet Inc. liabilities recorded fair value are measured and classified accordance with three-tier fair value hierarchy based the observability the inputs available the market used measure fair value: Level - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets liabilities active markets. Level - Inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments active markets, quoted prices for identical similar instruments markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable the market can derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings. Level - Unobservable inputs that are supported little market activities. The fair value hierarchy requires entity maximize the use observable inputs and minimize the use unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The determination fair value involves the use appropriate valuation methods and relevant inputs into valuation models. Our financial assets and liabilities that are measured fair value recurring basis include cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative financial instruments, and certain non-marketable debt securities. Our financial assets measured fair value nonrecurring basis include non-marketable equity securities. Other financial assets and liabilities are carried cost with fair value disclosed, required. measure certain other instruments, including stock-based compensation awards settled the stock certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired business combination, also fair value nonrecurring basis. Financial Instruments Our financial instruments include cash, cash equivalents, marketable and non-marketable securities, derivative financial instruments and accounts receivable. Credit Risks are subject credit risk from cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative financial instruments, including foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. manage our credit risk exposure through timely assessment our counterparty creditworthiness, credit limits and use collateral management. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from customers located around the world. manage our credit risk exposure performing ongoing evaluations determine customer credit and limit the amount credit extend. generally not require collateral from our customers. Cash Equivalents invest excess cash primarily government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, time deposits, and money market funds. Marketable Securities classify all marketable debt securities that have effective maturities three months less from the date purchase cash equivalents and those with effective maturities greater than three months marketable securities our Consolidated Balance Sheets. determine the appropriate classification our investments marketable debt securities the time purchase and reevaluate such designation each balance sheet date. have classified and accounted for our marketable debt securities available-for-sale. After consideration our risk versus reward objectives, well our liquidity requirements, may sell these debt securities prior their effective maturities. view these securities available support current operations, classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond months current assets under the caption marketable securities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. carry these securities fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, component stockholders’ equity, except for the changes allowance for expected credit losses, which are recorded other income (expense), net. For certain marketable debt securities have elected the fair value option, for which changes fair value are recorded other income (expense), net. determine any realized gains losses the sale marketable debt securities specific identification method, and record such gains and losses component other income (expense), net. Our investments marketable equity securities are measured fair value with the related gains and losses, including unrealized, recognized other income (expense), net. classify our marketable equity securities subject Alphabet Inc. long-term lock- restrictions beyond twelve months other non-current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Non-Marketable Securities account for non-marketable equity securities through which exercise significant influence but not have control over the investee under the equity method, All other non-marketable equity securities that hold are primarily accounted for under the measurement alternative. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value measured cost, less any impairment, plus minus changes resulting from observable price changes orderly transactions for identical similar investments the same issuer. Adjustments are determined primarily based market approach the transaction date and are recorded component other income (expense), net. Non-marketable debt securities are classified available-for-sale securities. Non-marketable securities that not have effective contractual maturity dates are classified other non-current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Derivative Financial Instruments See Note for the accounting policy pertaining derivative financial instruments. Accounts Receivable Our payment terms for accounts receivable vary the types and locations our customers and the products services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment due not significant. For certain products services and customers, require payment before the products services are delivered the customer. Additionally, accounts receivable includes amounts for services performed advance the right invoice the customer. maintain allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, which recorded offset accounts receivable, and changes such are classified general and administrative expense the Consolidated Statements Income. assess collectibility reviewing accounts receivable collective basis where similar characteristics exist and individual basis when identify specific customers with known disputes collectibility issues. determining the amount the allowance for credit losses, consider historical collectibility based past due status and make judgments about the creditworthiness customers based ongoing credit evaluations. also consider customer-specific information, current market conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts future economic conditions. Other Our financial instruments also include debt and equity investments companies with which also have commercial arrangements. For these transactions, judgment required assess the substance the arrangements, whether the arrangements and each component the arrangements should accounted for separate transactions under the applicable GAAP, well the determination the value the components the arrangements, including the fair value the investments. Impairment Investments periodically review our debt and non-marketable equity securities for impairment. For debt securities unrealized loss position, determine whether credit loss exists. The credit loss estimated considering available information relevant the collectibility the security and information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Any credit loss recorded charge other income (expense), net, not exceed the amount the unrealized loss. Unrealized losses other than the credit loss are recognized AOCI. have intent sell, more likely than not that will required sell debt security unrealized loss position before recovery its amortized cost basis, will write down the security its fair value and record the corresponding charge component other income (expense), net. For non-marketable equity securities, including equity method investments, consider whether impairment indicators exist evaluating the companies\' financial and liquidity position and access capital resources, among other indicators. the assessment indicates that the investment impaired, write down the investment its fair value recording the corresponding charge component other income (expense), net. prepare quantitative measurements the fair value our equity investments using market approach income approach. Alphabet Inc. Inventory Inventory consists primarily finished goods and stated the lower cost and net realizable value. Cost computed using the first- , first-out method. Variable Interest Entities determine the inception each arrangement whether entity which have made investment which have other variable interests considered variable interest entity (VIE). consolidate VIEs when are the primary beneficiary. are the primary beneficiary VIE when have the power direct activities that most significantly affect the economic performance the VIE and have the obligation absorb the majority their losses benefits. are not the primary beneficiary VIE, account for the investment other variable interests VIE accordance with applicable GAAP. Periodically, assess whether any changes our interest relationship with the entity affect our determination whether the entity VIE and, , whether are the primary beneficiary. Property and Equipment Property and equipment includes the following categories: land and buildings, information technology assets, construction progress, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. Land and buildings include land, offices, data centers, and related building improvements. Information technology assets include servers and network equipment. Construction progress the construction development property and equipment that have not yet been placed service. account for property and equipment cost less accumulated depreciation. compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which regularly evaluate. Land not depreciated. depreciate buildings over periods seven years. depreciate information technology assets generally over periods four five years (generally, four years for servers and five years for network equipment). depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter the remaining lease term the estimated useful lives the assets. Depreciation for buildings, information technology assets, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures commences once they are ready for our intended use. Leases determine arrangement lease inception. Our lease agreements generally contain lease and non-lease components. Payments under our lease arrangements are primarily fixed. Non-lease components primarily include payments for maintenance and utilities. combine fixed payments for non-lease components with lease payments and account for them together single lease component which increases the amount our lease assets and liabilities. Certain lease agreements contain variable payments, which are expensed incurred and not included the lease assets and liabilities. These amounts include payments affected the Consumer Price Index, payments contingent wind solar production for power purchase arrangements, and payments for maintenance and utilities. Lease assets and liabilities are recognized the present value the future lease payments the lease commencement date. The interest rate used determine the present value the future lease payments our incremental borrowing rate, because the interest rate implicit our leases not readily determinable. Our incremental borrowing rate estimated approximate the interest rate collateralized basis with similar terms and payments, and economic environments where the leased asset located. Our lease terms include periods under options extend terminate the lease when reasonably certain that will exercise that option. generally use the base, non-cancelable, lease term when determining the lease assets and liabilities. Lease assets also include any prepaid lease payments and lease incentives. Operating lease assets and liabilities are included our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The current portion our operating lease liabilities included accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and the long-term portion included operating lease liabilities. Finance lease assets are included property and equipment, net. Finance lease liabilities are included accrued expenses and other current liabilities long-term debt. Operating lease expense (excluding variable lease costs) recognized straight-line basis over the lease term. Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets review property and equipment and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not recoverable. The evaluation performed the lowest level identifiable cash flows independent other assets. measure recoverability these assets Alphabet Inc. comparing the carrying amounts the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets the asset group are expected generate. the carrying value the assets asset group not recoverable, the impairment recognized measured the amount which the carrying value exceeds its fair value. Impairments were not material for the periods presented. allocate goodwill reporting units based the expected benefit from the business combination. evaluate our reporting units periodically, well when changes our operating segments occur. For changes reporting units, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. test our goodwill for impairment least annually, more frequently events changes circumstances indicate that the asset may impaired. Goodwill impairments were material for the periods presented. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives straight-line basis generally over periods ranging from one twelve years , and are subsequently removed from the presentation gross intangible assets and accumulated amortization once they are fully amortized. Income Taxes account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based provisions enacted tax law. evaluate the realization our deferred tax assets based all available evidence and establish valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets when more likely than not that they will not realized. have elected account for the tax effects the global intangible low tax Income provision current period expense. recognize the financial statement effects tax position when more likely than not that, based technical merits, the position will sustained upon examination. The tax benefits the position recognized the financial statements are then measured based the largest amount benefit that greater than % likely realized upon settlement with taxing authority. addition, recognize interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits component the income tax provision. Business Combinations include the results operations the businesses that acquire the acquisition date. allocate the purchase price the acquisitions the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based their estimated fair values, except for revenue contracts acquired, which are recognized accordance with our revenue recognition policy. The excess the purchase price over the fair values identifiable assets and liabilities recorded goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed incurred. Foreign Currency translate the financial statements our international subsidiaries . dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. record translation gains and losses AOCI component stockholders’ equity. reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion the transaction currency functional currency component foreign currency exchange gain (loss) other income (expense), net. Prior Period Reclassifications Certain amounts prior periods have been reclassified conform with current period presentation. Alphabet Inc. Note . Revenues Disaggregated Revenues The following table presents revenues disaggregated type ( millions): Year Ended December , Google Search & other $ , $ , $ , YouTube ads , , , Google Network , , , Google advertising , , , Google other , , , Google Services total , , , Google Cloud , , , Other Bets , Hedging gains (losses) , Total revenues $ , $ , $ , dividual customer groups affiliated customers represented more than % our revenues , , . The following table presents revenues disaggregated geography, based the addresses our customers ( millions): Year Ended December , United States $ , % $ , % $ , % EMEA ( ) , , , APAC ( ) , , , Other Americas ( ) , , , Hedging gains (losses) , Total revenues $ , % $ , % $ , % ( ) Regions represent Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific (APAC); and Canada and Latin America ("Other Americas"). Revenue Backlog December , , had $ billion remaining performance obligations (“revenue backlog”), primarily related Google Cloud. Our revenue backlog represents commitments customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized revenue. The amount and timing revenue recognition for these commitments largely driven our ability deliver accordance with relevant contract terms and when our customers utilize services, which could affect our estimate revenue backlog and when expect recognize such revenue. expect recognize approximately half the revenue backlog revenues over the next months with the remaining recognized thereafter. Revenue backlog includes related deferred revenue currently recorded well amounts that will invoiced future periods, and excludes contracts with original expected term one year less and cancellable contracts. Deferred Revenue record deferred revenues when cash payments are received due advance our performance, including amounts which are refundable. Deferred revenues primarily relate Google Cloud and Google other. Total deferred revenue December , was $ billion, which $ billion was recognized revenues for the year ending December , . Alphabet Inc. Note . Financial Instruments Fair Value Measurements Investments measured fair value recurring basis Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable equity securities are measured fair value and classified within Level and Level the fair value hierarchy, because use quoted prices for identical assets active markets inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments active markets. Debt securities are classified within Level the fair value hierarchy, because use quoted market prices the extent available alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs determine fair value. For certain marketable debt securities, have elected the fair value option for which changes fair value are recorded other income (expense), net. The fair value option was elected for these securities align with the unrealized gains and losses from related derivative contracts. The following tables summarize our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities measured fair value recurring basis ( millions): December , Fair Value Hierarchy Adjusted Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Marketable Securities Fair value changes recorded other comprehensive income Time deposits ( ) Level $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ Government bonds Level , ( ) , , Corporate debt securities Level , ( ) , , Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities Level , ( ) , , Total investments with fair value change reflected Other Comprehensive Income ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , Fair value adjustments recorded net income Money market funds Level $ , $ , $ Current marketable equity securities ( ) Level , , Mutual funds Level Government bonds Level , , Corporate debt securities Level , , Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities Level , , Total investments with fair value change recorded Net Income $ , $ , $ , Cash , Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) The majority our time deposits are domestic deposits. ( ) Represents gross unrealized gains and losses for debt securities recorded AOCI. ( ) The long-term portion marketable equity securities (subject long-term lock- restrictions) $ billion December , included within other non-current assets. Alphabet Inc. December , Fair Value Hierarchy Adjusted Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Marketable Securities Fair value changes recorded other comprehensive income Time deposits ( ) Level $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ Government bonds Level , ( , ) , , Corporate debt securities Level , ( , ) , , Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities Level , ( , ) , , Total investments with fair value change reflected Other Comprehensive Income ( ) $ , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , Fair value adjustments recorded net income Money market funds Level $ , $ , $ Current marketable equity securities ( ) Level , , Mutual funds Level Government bonds Level , , Corporate debt securities Level , , Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities Level , , Total investments with fair value change recorded Net Income $ , $ , $ , Cash , Total $ , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) The majority our time deposits are domestic deposits. ( ) Represents gross unrealized gains and losses for debt securities recorded AOCI. ( ) The long-term portion marketable equity securities (subject long-term lock- restrictions) $ million December , included within other non-current assets. Investments measured fair value nonrecurring basis Our non-marketable equity securities are investments privately held companies without readily determinable market values. The carrying value our non-marketable equity securities adjusted fair value upon observable transactions for identical similar investments the same issuer impairment. Non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured during the period based observable transactions are classified within Level Level the fair value hierarchy because estimate the value based valuation methods which may include combination the observable transaction price the transaction date and other unobservable inputs including volatility, rights, and obligations the securities hold. The fair value non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured due impairment are classified within Level . During the year ended December , , included the $ billion non-marketable equity securities held the end the period, $ billion were measured fair value and primarily classified Level investments. Alphabet Inc. Debt Securities The following table summarizes the estimated fair value investments available-for-sale marketable debt securities effective contractual maturity dates ( millions): December , Due year less $ , Due year through years , Due years through years , Due after years , Total $ , The following tables present fair values and gross unrealized losses recorded AOCI, aggregated investment category and the length time that individual securities have been continuous loss position ( millions): December , Less than Months Months Greater Total Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Government bonds $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Corporate debt securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) December , Less than Months Months Greater Total Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Government bonds $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) Corporate debt securities , ( ) , ( , ) , ( , ) Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities , ( ) , ( ) , ( , ) Total $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) determine realized gains losses the sale extinguishment debt securities specific identification method. The following table summarizes gains and losses for debt securities, reflected component other income (expense), net ( millions): Year Ended December , Unrealized gain (loss) fair value option debt securities ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Gross realized gain debt securities Gross realized loss debt securities ( ) ( ) ( , ) (Increase)/decrease allowance for credit losses ( ) ( ) ( ) Total gain (loss) debt securities recognized other income (expense), net $ $ ( ) $ ( , ) ( ) Accumulated unrealized net gains (losses) related debt securities still held where have elected the fair value option were $ million, $( ) million, and $( ) million December , , , and , respectively. Alphabet Inc. Equity Investments The carrying value equity securities measured the total initial cost plus the cumulative net gain (loss). Our share gains and losses, including impairments, are included component other income (expense), net, the Consolidated Statements Income. See Note for further details other income (expense), net. The carrying values for marketable and non-marketable equity securities are summarized below ( millions): December , December , Marketable Equity Securities Non-Marketable Equity Securities Total Marketable Equity Securities Non-Marketable Equity Securities Total Total initial cost $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Cumulative net gain (loss) ( ) , , , ( ) , , Carrying value $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Non-marketable equity securities cumulative net gain (loss) comprised $ billion gains and $ billion losses (including impairments) December , and $ billion gains and $ billion losses (including impairments) December , . Gains and losses marketable and non-marketable equity securities Gains and losses (including impairments), net, for marketable and non-marketable equity securities included other income (expense), net are summarized below ( millions): Year Ended December , Realized net gain (loss) equity securities sold during the period $ , $ , $ ( ) Unrealized net gain (loss) marketable equity securities , , ( , ) Unrealized net gain (loss) non-marketable equity securities ( ) , , Total gain (loss) equity securities other income (expense), net $ , $ , $ ( , ) ( ) Unrealized gain (loss) non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the measurement alternative comprised $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion upward adjustments December , , , and , respectively, and $ billion, $ million, and $ billion downward adjustments (including impairments) December , , , and , respectively. the table above, realized net gain (loss) equity securities sold during the period reflects the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying value the equity securities the beginning the period the purchase date, later. Cumulative net gains (losses) equity securities sold during the period, which summarized the following table ( millions), represents the total net gains (losses) recognized after the initial purchase date the equity security sold during the period. While these net gains (losses) may have been reflected periods prior the period sale, believe they are important supplemental information they reflect the economic net gains (losses) the securities sold during the period. Cumulative net gains (losses) are calculated the difference between the sale price and the initial purchase price for the equity security sold during the period. Equity Securities Sold During the Year Ended December , Total sale price $ , $ , Total initial cost , Cumulative net gains (losses) ( ) $ , $ ( ) Cumulative net gains excludes cumulative losses $ million resulting from our equity derivatives, which hedged the changes fair value certain marketable equity securities sold during the year ended December , . The associated derivative liabilities arising from these losses were settled against our holdings the underlying equity securities. Alphabet Inc. Equity securities accounted for under the equity method December , and , equity securities accounted for under the equity method had carrying value approximately $ billion for both years. Our share gains and losses, including impairments, are included component other income (expense), net, the Consolidated Statements Income. See Note for further details other income (expense), net. Derivative Financial Instruments use derivative instruments manage risks relating our ongoing business operations. The primary risk managed foreign exchange risk. use foreign currency contracts reduce the risk that our cash flows, earnings, and investment foreign subsidiaries will adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. also enter into derivative instruments partially offset our exposure other risks and enhance investment returns. recognize derivative instruments the Consolidated Balance Sheets fair value and classify the derivatives primarily within Level the fair value hierarchy. present our collar contracts ( option strategy comprised combination purchased and written options) net fair values and present all other derivatives gross fair values. The accounting treatment for derivatives based the intended use and hedge designation. Cash Flow Hedges designate foreign currency forward and option contracts (including collars) cash flow hedges hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated currencies other than the . dollar. These contracts have maturities months less. Cash flow hedge amounts included the assessment hedge effectiveness are deferred AOCI and subsequently reclassified revenue when the hedged item recognized earnings. exclude forward points and time value from our assessment hedge effectiveness and amortize them straight-line basis over the life the hedging instrument revenues. The difference between fair value changes the excluded component and the amount amortized revenues recorded AOCI. December , , the net accumulated gain our foreign currency cash flow hedges before tax effect was $ million, which expected reclassified from AOCI into revenues within the next months. Fair Value Hedges designate foreign currency forward contracts fair value hedges hedge foreign currency risks for our marketable securities denominated currencies other than the . dollar. Fair value hedge amounts included the assessment hedge effectiveness are recognized other income (expense), net, along with the offsetting gains and losses the related hedged items. exclude forward points from the assessment hedge effectiveness and recognize changes the excluded component other income (expense), net. Net Investment Hedges designate foreign currency forward contracts net investment hedges hedge the foreign currency risks related our investment foreign subsidiaries. Net investment hedge amounts included the assessment hedge effectiveness are recognized AOCI along with the foreign currency translation adjustment. exclude forward points from the assessment hedge effectiveness and recognize changes the excluded component other income (expense), net. Other Derivatives enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts that are not designated hedging instruments hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets liabilities denominated currencies other than the functional currency subsidiary. Gains and losses these derivatives that are not designated accounting hedges are primarily recorded other income (expense), net along with the foreign currency gains and losses monetary assets and liabilities. also use derivatives not designated hedging instruments manage risks relating interest rates, commodity prices, credit exposures, and enhance investment returns. From time time, enter into derivatives hedge the market price risk certain our marketable equity securities. Gains and losses arising from other derivatives are primarily reflected within the “other” component other income (expense), net. See Note for further details. Alphabet Inc. The gross notional amounts outstanding derivative instruments were follows ( millions): December , Derivatives designated hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts Cash flow hedges $ , $ , Fair value hedges $ , $ , Net investment hedges $ , $ , Derivatives not designated hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , Other contracts $ , $ , The fair values outstanding derivative instruments were follows ( millions): December , December , Assets ( ) Liabilities ( ) Assets ( ) Liabilities ( ) Derivatives designated hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ $ Derivatives not designated hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts Other contracts Total derivatives not designated hedging instruments Total $ $ $ $ ( ) Derivative assets are recorded other current and non-current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. ( ) Derivative liabilities are recorded accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The gains (losses) derivatives cash flow hedging and net investment hedging relationships recognized other comprehensive income (OCI) are summarized below ( millions): Gains (Losses) Recognized OCI Derivatives Before Tax Effect Year Ended December , Derivatives cash flow hedging relationship: Foreign exchange contracts Amount included the assessment effectiveness $ $ $ , Amount excluded from the assessment effectiveness ( ) ( ) Derivatives net investment hedging relationship: Foreign exchange contracts Amount included the assessment effectiveness ( ) Total $ ( ) $ , $ , Alphabet Inc. The table below presents the gains (losses) our derivatives the Consolidated Statements Income: ( millions): Gains (Losses) Recognized Income Year Ended December , Revenues Other income (expense), net Revenues Other income (expense), net Revenues Other income (expense), net Total amounts the Consolidated Statements Income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) Effect cash flow hedges: Foreign exchange contracts Amount reclassified from AOCI income $ $ $ $ $ , $ Amount excluded from the assessment effectiveness (amortized) ( ) ( ) Effect fair value hedges: Foreign exchange contracts Hedged items ( ) ( ) Derivatives designated hedging instruments ( ) Amount excluded from the assessment effectiveness Effect net investment hedges: Foreign exchange contracts Amount excluded from the assessment effectiveness Effect non designated hedges: Foreign exchange contracts ( ) ( ) Other contracts ( ) Total gains (losses) $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Offsetting Derivatives enter into master netting arrangements and collateral security arrangements reduce credit risk. Cash collateral received related derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included other current assets with corresponding liability . Cash and non-cash collateral pledged related derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included other current assets. Alphabet Inc. The gross amounts derivative instruments subject master netting arrangements with various counterparties, and cash and non-cash collateral received and pledged under such agreements were follows ( millions): December , Gross Amounts Not Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights Offset Gross Amounts Recognized Gross Amounts Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets Net Amounts Presented the Consolidated Balance Sheets Financial Instruments ( ) Cash and Non-Cash Collateral Received Pledged Net Amounts Derivatives assets $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Derivatives liabilities $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ December , Gross Amounts Not Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights Offset Gross Amounts Recognized Gross Amounts Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets Net Amounts Presented the Consolidated Balance Sheets Financial Instruments ( ) Cash and Non-Cash Collateral Received Pledged Net Amounts Derivatives assets $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Derivatives liabilities $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) The balances December , and were related derivatives allowed net settled accordance with our master netting agreements. Note . Leases have entered into operating lease agreements primarily for data centers, land, and offices throughout the world with lease periods expiring between and . Components operating lease expense were follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Operating lease cost $ , $ , $ , Variable lease cost Total operating lease cost $ , $ , $ , Supplemental information related operating leases was follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Cash payments for operating leases $ , $ , $ , New operating lease assets obtained exchange for operating lease liabilities $ , $ , $ , Alphabet Inc. December , , our operating leases had weighted average remaining lease term eight years and weighted average discount rate %. Future lease payments under operating leases December , were follows ( millions): $ , , , , , Thereafter , Total future lease payments , Less imputed interest ( , ) Total lease liability balance $ , December , , have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with short-term and long-term future lease payments $ million and $ billion that are not yet recorded our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between and with non-cancelable lease terms between and years. Note . Variable Interest Entities Consolidated VIEs consolidate VIEs which hold variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. The results operations and financial position these VIEs are included our consolidated financial statements. For certain consolidated VIEs, their assets are not available and their creditors not have recourse . December , and , assets that can only used settle obligations these VIEs were $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and the liabilities for which creditors only have recourse the VIEs were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. may continue fund ongoing operations certain VIEs that are included within Other Bets. Total noncontrolling interests (NCI) our consolidated subsidiaries were $ billion and $ billion December , and , respectively, which $ billion redeemable noncontrolling interest (RNCI) for both periods. NCI and RNCI are included within additional paid- capital. Net loss attributable noncontrolling interests was not material for period presented and included within the "other" component & . See Note for further details & . Unconsolidated VIEs have investments VIEs which are not the primary beneficiary. These VIEs include private companies that are primarily early stage companies and certain renewable energy entities which activities involve power generation using renewable sources. have determined that the governance structures these entities not allow direct the activities that would significantly affect their economic performance. Therefore, are not the primary beneficiary, and the results operations and financial position these VIEs are not included our consolidated financial statements. account for these investments non-marketable equity securities equity method investments. The maximum exposure these unconsolidated VIEs generally based the current carrying value the investments and any future funding commitments. have determined that the single source our exposure these VIEs our capital investments them. The carrying value and maximum exposure these unconsolidated VIEs were $ billion and $ billion, respectively, December , and $ billion and $ billion, respectively, December , . Note . Debt Short-Term Debt have debt financing program $ billion through the issuance commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. had commercial paper outstanding December , and . Our short-term debt balance also includes the current portion certain long-term debt. Alphabet Inc. Long-Term Debt Total outstanding debt summarized below ( millions, except percentages): Effective Interest Rate December , Maturity Coupon Rate Debt - Notes issuances - % - % % - % $ , $ , Future finance lease payments, net and other ( ) , , Total debt , , Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs ( ) ( ) Less: current portion future finance lease payments, net and other current debt ( )( ) ( ) ( ) Total long-term debt $ , $ , ( ) Future finance lease payments are net imputed interest. ( ) Total current portion long-term debt included within other accrued expenses and current liabilities. See Note for further details. The notes the table above are fixed-rate senior unsecured obligations and generally rank equally with each other. may redeem the notes any time whole part specified redemption prices. The effective interest rates are based proceeds received with interest payable semi-annually. The total estimated fair value the outstanding notes was approximately $ billion and $ billion December , and December , , respectively. The fair value was determined based observable market prices identical instruments less active markets and categorized accordingly Level the fair value hierarchy. December , , the aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt, including finance lease liabilities, for each the next five years and thereafter were follows ( millions): $ , , , , Thereafter , Total $ , Credit Facility December , , had $ billion revolving credit facilities, $ billion expiring April and $ billion expiring April . The interest rates for all credit facilities are determined based formula using certain market rates, well our progress toward the achievement certain sustainability goals. amounts were outstanding under the credit facilities December , and . Note . Supplemental Financial Statement Information Accounts Receivable The allowance for credit losses accounts receivable was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Alphabet Inc. Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment, net, consisted the following ( millions): December , Land and buildings $ , $ , Information technology assets , , Construction progress , , Leasehold improvements , , Furniture and fixtures Property and equipment, gross , , Less: accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted the following ( millions): December , European Commission fines ( ) $ , $ , Accrued customer liabilities , , Accrued purchases property and equipment , , Current operating lease liabilities , , Other accrued expenses and current liabilities , , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ , $ , ( ) While each decision under appeal, the fines are included accrued expenses and other current liabilities our Consolidated Balance Sheets, provided bank guarantees ( lieu cash payment) for the fines. Amounts include the effects foreign exchange and interest. Note for further details. Alphabet Inc. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Components AOCI, net income tax, were follows ( millions): Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments Unrealized Gains (Losses) Available-for-Sale Investments Unrealized Gains (Losses) Cash Flow Hedges Total Balance December , $ ( , ) $ $ ( ) $ ( , ) Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications , , , Amounts excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness recorded AOCI ( ) ( ) Amounts reclassified from AOCI ( ) ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) , ( ) , Balance December , ( ) , ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Amounts excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness recorded AOCI Amounts reclassified from AOCI ( ) ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance December , ( , ) ( , ) Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Amounts excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness recorded AOCI ( ) ( ) Amounts reclassified from AOCI , ( , ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Balance December , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ $ ( , ) The effects net income amounts reclassified from AOCI were follows ( millions): Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI the Consolidated Statements Income Year Ended December , AOCI Components Location Unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale investments Other income (expense), net $ $ $ ( , ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes ( ) ( ) Net income tax ( , ) Unrealized gains (losses) cash flow hedges Foreign exchange contracts Revenue , Interest rate contracts Other income (expense), net Benefit (provision) for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income tax , Total amount reclassified, net income tax $ $ $ Alphabet Inc. Other Income (Expense), Net Components & were follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Interest income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Gain (loss) debt securities, net ( ) ( , ) Gain (loss) equity securities, net , , ( , ) Performance fees ( ) ( , ) Income (loss) and impairment from equity method investments, net ( ) Other ( ) Other income (expense), net $ , $ , $ ( , ) ( ) Interest expense net interest capitalized $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. Note . Acquisitions Mandiant Acquisition September , closed the acquisition Mandiant for total purchase price $ billion, including cash and debt. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. Mandiant\' dynamic cyber defense, threat intelligence and incident response services are expected enhanc Google Cloud\' security offerings. The financial results Mandiant have been included within Google Cloud segment the close the acquisition. The purchase price was allocated follows ( millions): Intangible assets $ Goodwill ( ) , Net assets acquired ( ) Total purchase price $ , ( ) Goodwill was recorded the Google Cloud segment and primarily attributable synergies expected arise after the acquisition. Goodwill not deductible for tax purposes. ( ) Includes $ million acquired cash. Intangible assets acquired the acquisition date were follows: Amount ( millions) Weighted-Average Useful Life ( years) Patents and developed technology $ Customer relationships Trade names and other Total intangible assets $ Alphabet Inc. Note . Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill Changes the carrying amount goodwill for the years ended December , and were follows ( millions): Google Services Google Cloud Other Bets Total Balance December , $ , $ , $ $ , Acquisitions , , Foreign currency translation and other adjustments ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance December , , , , Acquisitions , , , Foreign currency translation and other adjustments ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance December , $ , $ , $ $ , Other Intangible Assets Information regarding intangible assets was follows ( millions): December , December , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Value Weighted-Average Remaining Useful Life ( years) Patents and developed technology $ , $ , $ $ , $ $ Customer relationships Trade names and other Total definite-lived intangible assets , , , , , Indefinite-lived intangible assets Total intangible assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ $ , For the year ended December , , $ billion intangible assets that were fully amortized have been removed from gross intangible assets and accumulated amortization. Amortization expense relating intangible assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. Expected amortization expense definite-lived intangible assets held December , was follows ( millions): $ Thereafter $ , Note . Commitments and contingencies Commitments have content licensing agreements with future fixed minimum guaranteed commitments $ billion December , , which the majority will paid over seven years commencing . Alphabet Inc. Indemnifications the normal course business, including facilitate transactions our services and products and corporate activities, indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network partners, distribution partners, customers Google Cloud offerings, lessors, and service providers with respect certain matters. have agreed hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from breach representations covenants, out intellectual property infringement other claims made against certain parties. Several these agreements limit the time within which indemnification claim can made and the amount the claim. addition, have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations our agents. not possible make reasonable estimate the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due the unique facts and circumstances involved each particular agreement. Additionally, the payments have made under such agreements have not had material adverse effect our results operations, cash flows, financial position. However, the extent that valid indemnification claims arise the future, future payments could significant and could have material adverse effect our results operations cash flows particular period. December , , did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable reasonably possible. Legal Matters record liability when believe that probable that loss has been incurred, and the amount can reasonably estimated. determine that loss reasonably possible and the loss range loss can estimated, disclose the reasonably possible loss. evaluate developments our legal matters that could affect the amount liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments appropriate. Certain outstanding matters include speculative, substantial indeterminate monetary amounts. Significant judgment required determine both the likelihood there being loss and the estimated amount loss related such matters, and may unable estimate the reasonably possible loss range losses. The outcomes outstanding legal matters are inherently unpredictable and subject significant uncertainties, and could, either individually aggregate, have material adverse effect. expense legal fees the period which they are incurred. Antitrust Investigations November , , the \' Directorate General for Competition opened investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against . June , , the announced its decision that certain actions taken Google regarding its display and ranking shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The decision imposed € billion ($ billion June , ) fine. September , , appealed the decision the General Court, and September , , implemented product changes bring shopping ads into compliance with the \' decision. recognized charge $ billion for the fine the second quarter . November , , the General Court rejected our appeal, and subsequently filed appeal with the European Court Justice January , . July , , the announced its decision that certain provisions Google’ Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The decision imposed € billion ($ billion June , ) fine and directed the termination the conduct issue. October , , appealed the decision, and October , , implemented changes certain our Android distribution practices. September , , the General Court reduced the fine from € billion € billion. subsequently filed appeal with the European Court Justice. , recognized charge $ billion for the fine, which reduced $ million . March , , the announced its decision that certain contractual provisions agreements that Google had with AdSense for Search partners infringed European competition law. The decision imposed fine € billion ($ billion March , ) and directed actions related AdSense for Search partners\' agreements, which implemented prior the decision. June , , appealed the decision, which remains pending. recognized charge $ billion for the fine the first quarter . From time time are subject formal and informal inquiries and investigations various competition matters regulatory authorities the ., Europe, and other jurisdictions globally. For example: Alphabet Inc. • August , began receiving civil investigative demands from the . Department Justice (DOJ) requesting information and documents relating our prior antitrust investigations and certain aspects our business. The DOJ and number state Attorneys General filed lawsuit October , alleging that Google violated . antitrust laws relating Search and Search advertising. Further, June , the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) and the United Kingdom\' Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) each opened investigation into Search distribution practices. • December , , number state Attorneys General filed antitrust complaint the . District Court for the Eastern District Texas, alleging that Google violated . antitrust laws well state deceptive trade laws relating its advertising technology. Additionally, January , , the DOJ, along with number state Attorneys General, filed antitrust complaint alleging that Google’ digital advertising technology products violate . antitrust laws. The , the CMA, and the ACCC each opened formal investigation into Google\' advertising technology business practices June , , May , , and June , , respectively. • July , , number state Attorneys General filed antitrust complaint the . District Court for the Northern District California, alleging that Google’ operation Android and Google Play violated . antitrust laws and state antitrust and consumer protection laws. May , the and the CMA each opened investigations into Google Play’ business practices. Korean regulators are investigating Google Play\' billing practices, most recently opening formal review May Google\' compliance with the new app store billing regulations. believe these complaints are without merit and will defend ourselves vigorously. continue cooperate with federal and state regulators the ., the , and other regulators around the world. Patent and Intellectual Property Claims have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against claiming that certain our products, services, and technologies infringe others\' intellectual property rights. Adverse results these lawsuits may include awards substantial monetary damages, costly royalty licensing agreements, orders preventing from offering certain features, functionalities, products, services. result, may have change our business practices and develop non-infringing products technologies, which could result loss revenues for and otherwise harm our business. addition, the . International Trade Commission (ITC) has increasingly become important forum litigate intellectual property disputes because ultimate loss ITC action can result prohibition importing infringing products into the . Because the . important market, prohibition importation could have adverse effect , including preventing from importing many important products into the . necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features our products. Furthermore, many our agreements with our customers and partners require indemnify them against certain intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase our costs result defending such claims, and may require that pay significant damages there were adverse ruling any such claims. addition, our customers and partners may discontinue the use our products, services, and technologies, result injunctions otherwise, which could result loss revenues and adversely affect our business. Other are subject claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated our users, goods and services offered advertisers publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. For example, currently have number privacy investigations and lawsuits ongoing multiple jurisdictions. also periodically have data incidents that report relevant regulators required law. Such claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders could result substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing monitoring and auditing obligations, changes our products and services, alterations our business models and operations, and collateral related civil litigation other adverse consequences, all which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. have ongoing legal matters relating Russia. For example, civil judgments that include compounding penalties have been imposed upon connection with disputes regarding the termination accounts, including those sanctioned parties. not believe these ongoing legal matters will have material adverse effect. Alphabet Inc. Non-Income Taxes are under audit various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards non-income tax matters. The subject matter non-income tax audits primarily arises from disputes the tax treatment and tax rate applied the sale our products and services these jurisdictions and the tax treatment certain employee benefits. accrue non-income taxes that may result from examinations , any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities when loss probable and reasonably estimable. determine that loss reasonably possible and the loss range loss can estimated, disclose the reasonably possible loss. Due the inherent complexity and uncertainty these matters and judicial process certain jurisdictions, the final outcome may materially different from our expectations. For information regarding income tax contingencies see Note . Note . Stockholders\' Equity Class and Class Common Stock and Class Capital Stock Our Board Directors has authorized three classes stock, Class and Class common stock, and Class capital stock. The rights the holders each class our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect voting. Each share Class common stock entitled one vote per share. Each share Class common stock entitled votes per share. Class capital stock has voting rights, except required applicable law. Shares Class common stock may converted any time the option the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale transfer Class common stock. Stock Split July , , the company executed -for-one stock split with record date July , , effected the form one-time special stock dividend each share the company\' Class , Class , and Class stock. All prior period references made share per share amounts the accompanying consolidated financial statements and applicable disclosures have been retroactively adjusted reflect the effects the Stock Split. See Note for further details. Share Repurchases April , the Board Directors Alphabet authorized the company repurchase $ billion its Class and Class shares. December , , $ billion remains available for Class and Class share repurchases. The following table presents Class and Class shares repurchased and subsequently retired ( millions): Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Shares Amount Shares Amount Class share repurchases $ , $ , Class share repurchases , , Total share repurchases $ , $ , Class and Class shares are repurchased manner deemed the best interest the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes the Class and Class shares. Repurchases are executed from time time, subject general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5- plans. The repurchase program does not have expiration date. Note . Net Income Per Share compute net income per share Class , Class , and Class stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share computed using the weighted-average number shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share computed using the weighted-average number shares and the effect potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect outstanding restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. The computation the diluted net income per share Class stock assumes the conversion Class stock, while the diluted net income per share Class stock does not assume the conversion those shares. Alphabet Inc. The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, the holders our Class , Class , and Class stock are identical, except with respect voting. Furthermore, there are number safeguards built into our certificate incorporation, well Delaware law, which preclude our Board Directors from declaring paying unequal per share dividends our Class , Class , and Class stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments our certificate incorporation which would have the effect adversely altering the rights, powers, preferences given class stock must approved the class stock adversely affected the proposed amendment. addition, our certificate incorporation provides that before any such amendment may put stockholder vote, must approved the unanimous consent our Board Directors. result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based the contractual participation rights the Class , Class , and Class stock the earnings for the year had been distributed. the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated proportionate basis. the years ended December , , , and , the net income per share amounts are the same for Class , Class , and Class stock because the holders each class are entitled equal per share dividends distributions liquidation accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate Incorporation Alphabet Inc. The following tables set forth the computation basic and diluted net income per share Class , Class , and Class stock ( millions, except per share amounts): Year Ended December , Class Class Class Basic net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used per share computation , , Basic net income per share $ $ $ Diluted net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings for basic computation $ , $ , $ , Reallocation undistributed earnings result conversion Class Class shares , Reallocation undistributed earnings ( ) ( ) Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used basic computation , , Weighted-average effect dilutive securities Add: Conversion Class Class shares outstanding Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares Number shares used per share computation , , Diluted net income per share $ $ $ Alphabet Inc. Year Ended December , Class Class Class Basic net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used per share computation , , Basic net income per share $ $ $ Diluted net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings for basic computation $ , $ , $ , Reallocation undistributed earnings result conversion Class Class shares , Reallocation undistributed earnings ( ) ( ) Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used basic computation , , Weighted-average effect dilutive securities Add: Conversion Class Class shares outstanding Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares Number shares used per share computation , , Diluted net income per share $ $ $ Year Ended December , Class Class Class Basic net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used per share computation , , Basic net income per share $ $ $ Diluted net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings for basic computation $ , $ , $ , Reallocation undistributed earnings result conversion Class Class shares , Reallocation undistributed earnings ( ) ( ) Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used basic computation , , Weighted-average effect dilutive securities Add: Conversion Class Class shares outstanding Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares Number shares used per share computation , , Diluted net income per share $ $ $ Alphabet Inc. Note . Compensation Plans Stock Plans Our stock plans include the Alphabet Amended and Restated Stock Plan ("Alphabet Stock Plan") and Other Bet stock-based plans. Under our stock plans, RSUs and other types awards may granted. Under the Alphabet Stock Plan, RSU award agreement issue shares our Class stock the time the award vests. RSUs generally vest over four years contingent upon employment the vesting date. December , , there were million shares Class stock reserved for future issuance under the Alphabet Stock Plan. Stock-Based Compensation For the years ended December , , , and , total stock-based compensation expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, including amounts associated with awards expect settle Alphabet stock $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. For the years ended December , , , and , recognized tax benefits total stock-based compensation expense, which are reflected the provision for income taxes the Consolidated Statements Income, $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. For the years ended December , , , and , tax benefit realized related awards vested exercised during the period was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. These amounts not include the indirect effects stock-based awards, which primarily relate the & tax credit. Stock-Based Award Activities The following table summarizes the activities for unvested Alphabet RSUs for the year ended December , ( millions, except per share amounts): Unvested Restricted Stock Units Number Shares Weighted- Average Grant-Date Fair Value Unvested December , $ Granted $ Vested ( ) $ Forfeited canceled ( ) $ Unvested December , $ The weighted-average grant-date fair value RSUs granted during the years ended December , and was $ and $ , respectively. Total fair value RSUs, their respective vesting dates, during the years ended December , , , and , were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. December , , there was $ billion unrecognized compensation cost related unvested RSUs. This amount expected recognized over weighted-average period years. Note . Income Taxes Income from continuing operations before income taxes consisted the following ( millions): Year Ended December , Domestic operations $ , $ , $ , Foreign operations , , , Total $ , $ , $ , Alphabet Inc. Provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): Year Ended December , Current: Federal and state $ , $ , $ , Foreign , , , Total , , , Deferred: Federal and state , , ( , ) Foreign ( ) ( ) ( ) Total , , ( , ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The reconciliation federal statutory income tax rate our effective income tax rate was follows: Year Ended December , . federal statutory tax rate % % % Foreign income taxed different rates ( ) Foreign-derived intangible income deduction ( ) ( ) ( ) Stock-based compensation expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Federal research credit ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred tax asset valuation allowance State and local income taxes Other ( ) Effective tax rate % % % , there was increase the . Foreign Derived Intangible Income tax deduction from the effects capitalization and amortization & expenses required the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Alphabet Inc. Deferred Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components our deferred tax assets and liabilities were follows ( millions): December , Deferred tax assets: Accruals and reserves not currently deductible $ , $ , Tax credits , , Net operating losses , , Operating leases , , Capitalized research and development ( ) , , Other , , Total deferred tax assets , , Valuation allowance ( , ) ( , ) Total deferred tax assets net valuation allowance , , Deferred tax liabilities: Property and equipment, net ( , ) ( , ) Net investment gains ( , ) ( , ) Operating leases ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( , ) Total deferred tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ ( , ) $ , ( ) required the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, effective January , , our research and development expenditures were capitalized and amortized which resulted substantially higher cash taxes for with equal amount deferred tax benefit. December , , our federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion respectively. not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin expire , foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin expire and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin expire . more likely than not that the majority the net operating loss carryforwards will not realized; therefore, have recorded valuation allowance against them. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject various annual limitations under the tax laws the different jurisdictions. December , , our Federal and California research and development credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $ million and $ billion, respectively. not utilized, the Federal & credit will begin expire and the California & credit can carried over indefinitely. believe the majority the federal tax credit and state tax credit not likely realized. December , , our investment tax credit carryforwards for state income tax purposes were approximately $ million and will begin expire . use the flow-through method accounting for investment tax credits. believe this tax credit not likely realized. December , , maintained valuation allowance with respect California deferred tax assets, certain federal net operating losses, certain state net operating losses and tax credits, net deferred tax assets relating certain Other Bets, and certain foreign net operating losses that believe are not likely realized. continue reassess the remaining valuation allowance quarterly, and future evidence allows for partial full release the valuation allowance, tax benefit will recorded accordingly. Alphabet Inc. Uncertain Tax Positions The following table summarizes the activity related our gross unrecognized tax benefits ( millions): Year Ended December , Beginning gross unrecognized tax benefits $ , $ , $ , Increases related prior year tax positions Decreases related prior year tax positions ( ) ( ) ( ) Decreases related settlement with tax authorities ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases related current year tax positions , , Ending gross unrecognized tax benefits $ , $ , $ , are subject income taxes the . and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. The total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion December , , , and , respectively, which $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate, respectively. December , and , accrued $ million and $ million interest and penalties provision for income taxes, respectively. file income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. Our two major tax jurisdictions are the . federal and Ireland. are subject the continuous examination our income tax returns the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS currently examining our through tax returns. have also received tax assessments multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments permanent establishment. continue defend any and all such claims presented. The tax years through remain subject examination the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits various other jurisdictions that are not material our financial statements. regularly assess the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy our provision for income taxes. continue monitor the progress ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the effect, any, the expected expiration the statute limitations various taxing jurisdictions. believe that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed our tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, could required adjust our provision for income taxes the period such resolutions occur. Although the timing resolution, settlement, and closure audits not certain, reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits from certain . federal, state, and non . tax positions could decrease approximately $ billion the next months. Positions that may resolved include various . and non- . matters. Note . Information about Segments and Geographic Areas report our segment results Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets: • Google Services includes products and services such ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Google Services generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales apps and -app purchases, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products such YouTube Premium and YouTube . • Google Cloud includes infrastructure and platform services, collaboration tools, and other services for enterprise customers. Google Cloud generates revenues from fees received for Google Cloud Platform services, Google Workspace communication and collaboration tools, and other enterprise services. • Other Bets combination multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale health technology and internet services. Revenues, certain costs, such costs associated with content and traffic acquisition, certain engineering activities, and hardware, well certain operating expenses are directly attributable our segments. Due the integrated nature Alphabet, other costs and expenses, such technical infrastructure and office facilities, are managed centrally consolidated level. The associated costs, including depreciation and impairment, are allocated operating segments service cost generally based usage headcount. Alphabet Inc. Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such finance and legal, including certain fines and settlements, well costs associated with certain shared & activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related revenue are included corporate costs. critical delivering our mission bringing our breakthrough innovations into the real world, beginning January , will update our segment reporting relating certain Alphabet\' activities. DeepMind, previously reported within Other Bets, will reported part Alphabet\' corporate costs, reflecting its increasing collaboration with Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets. Prior periods will recast conform the revised presentation. Our operating segments are not evaluated using asset information. The following table presents information about our segments ( millions): Year Ended December , Revenues: Google Services $ , $ , $ , Google Cloud , , , Other Bets , Hedging gains (losses) , Total revenues $ , $ , $ , Operating income (loss): Google Services $ , $ , $ , Google Cloud ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other Bets ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Corporate costs, unallocated ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total income from operations $ , $ , $ , For revenues geography see Note . The following table presents long-lived assets geographic area, which includes property and equipment, net and operating lease assets ( millions): December , Long-lived assets: United States $ , $ , International , , Total long-lived assets $ , $ , Note . Subsequent Event January , announced reduction our workforce approximately , roles. expect incur employee severance and related charges $ billion $ billion, the majority which will recognized the first quarter . addition, are taking actions optimize our global office space. result expect incur exit costs relating office space reductions approximately $ billion the first quarter . may incur additional charges the future further evaluate our real estate needs. Alphabet Inc. ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Our management, with the participation our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant Rule 13a- under the Exchange Act, the end the period covered this Annual Report Form - . Based this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, December , , our disclosure controls and procedures are designed reasonable assurance level and are effective provide reasonable assurance that information are required disclose reports that file submit under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified the SEC’ rules and forms, and that such information accumulated and communicated our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, appropriate, allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Changes Internal Control over Financial Reporting There have been changes our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Management’ Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Exchange Act. Our management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework). Based this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective December , . Management reviewed the results its assessment with our Audit and Compliance Committee. The effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting December , has been audited Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, stated its report which included Item this Annual Report Form - . Limitations Effectiveness Controls and Procedures designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance achieving the desired control objectives. addition, the design disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management required apply its judgment evaluating the benefits possible controls and procedures relative their costs. ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION previously disclosed, Google LLC, subsidiary Alphabet, filed notifications with the Russian Federal Security Service required pursuant Russian encryption product import controls for the purpose enabling the import certain software Russia. The information provided pursuant Section ( ) the Exchange Act Part , Item our Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended September , incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 9c. ': 'DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS Not applicable. Alphabet Inc. PART III ', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The information required this item will included under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , ( Proxy Statement) and incorporated herein reference. The information required this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant Item Regulation - will included under the caption “Delinquent Section ( ) Reports” the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information required this item will included under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information required this item will included under the captions “Common Stock Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information required this item will included under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Director Independence” the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES The information required this item will included under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. Alphabet Inc. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES have filed the following documents part this Annual Report Form - : . Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements: . Financial Statement Schedules Schedule : Valuation and Qualifying Accounts The table below details the activity the allowance for credit losses and sales credits for the years ended December , , , and ( millions): Balance Beginning Year Additions Usage Balance End Year Year ended December , $ $ , $ ( , ) $ , Year ended December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Year ended December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Note: Additions the allowance for credit losses are charged expense. Additions the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues. All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, the required information otherwise included. . Exhibits Exhibit Number Description Incorporated reference herein Form Date Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) June , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Annual Report Form - (File . - ) February , Alphabet Inc. Exhibit Number Description Incorporated reference herein Form Date Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Registration Statement Form - (File . - ) February , Registration Statement Form - (File . - ) February , Current Report Form - (File . - ) April , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , * Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) July , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) June , Annual Report Form - (File . - ) March , Current Report Form - (File . - ) June , Annual Report Form - (File . - ) February , Alphabet Inc. Exhibit Number Description Incorporated reference herein Form Date Current Report Form - (file . - ) June , Quarterly Report Form - (file . - ) July , Annual Report Form - (File . - ) February , * * * * * * * ‡ INS * Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document SCH * Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document CAL * Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document DEF * Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document LAB * Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document PRE * Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document and contained Exhibit ) _________________ Indicates management compensatory plan, contract, arrangement. * Filed herewith. ‡ Furnished herewith. Alphabet Inc. ', 'item 16. ': 'FORM - SUMMARY None. Alphabet Inc. '}