{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Over the last three decades, technology has transformed the way people work, play, and communicate. Today, people access information and communicate with individuals from around the world instant. Groundbreaking technologies have opened the door innovations every field human endeavor, delivering new opportunity, convenience, and value people\x92 lives. Since our founding , have been leader this transformation. reflection that role, and help focus the opportunities that lie ahead have established new corporate mission: enable people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. PRODUCT SEGMENTS Our product segments provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses. The segments provide framework for the alignment strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and for the timely and rational allocation development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. The segments also help focus strategic planning efforts key objectives and initiatives across our broad businesses. The product segments are designed allocate resources internally and provide framework determine management responsibility. Due our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments. Therefore, these segments are not designed measure operating income loss that directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and incent shared effort. Due our integrated business structure, segments should not viewed discrete easily separable businesses. Our seven product segments are: Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. See Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements for financial information regarding segment reporting. Client . The Client segment has overall responsibility for product delivery, engineering, and technical architecture for the Microsoft Windows operating system and new media technology, well our relationships with manufacturers personal computers, including multinational and regional original equipment manufacturer (OEM) accounts. The segment includes sales and marketing expenses for the Windows Client operating system and product development efforts for the Windows platform. The Client segment includes Windows and other standard Windows operating systems. Windows extends the personal computing experience uniting PCs, devices, and services, while enhancing reliability, security, and performance. With emerging form factors such the Tablet and Media Center, and with investments technology such Windows Media, believe the \x93Windows \x94 continues evolve with innovations that enable people use computers more ways, more places, and more often than ever before. Windows Home Edition designed for individuals families and includes capabilities for digital photo, music, video, home networking, and communications. Windows Professional, designed for business users and people who demand the most from their computing experience, includes all the features Home Edition, along with advanced security, performance, manageability, and multilingual features help customers improve their productivity and connectivity. Windows -Bit Edition meets the demands specialized technical workstation users. The next generation the Windows operating system, code-named Longhorn, currently under development. This development phase represents significant investment for the Client business and expected result product that more manageable and deployable for both our business and consumer markets. While all features and functions have not been finalized, Longhorn will include significant advances security, digital media, user interfaces, and other areas that are expected enhance the user and developer experience. are targeting broad availability this operating system calendar year . are also developing Windows storage subsystem, which will provide advanced data organization and management capabilities, that plan deliver subsequent the Longhorn operating system introduction. PAGE Part Item Server and Tools . The Server and Tools segment has overall responsibility for integrated product development and marketing Windows Server System products, including building and marketing Windows Server operating systems. Windows Server System integrated server infrastructure software that designed support end- -end solutions built the Windows Server operating system. addition, the segment provides information about the extended Microsoft platform through variety content offerings, such Web-based training for developers and professionals. Through this segment, offer broad range consulting services for advanced technology requirements, including custom solution services, enterprise application planning, architecture and design services, and proof- -concept services. also provide product support services corporations and other large customers. The Server and Tools segment also includes: developer tools, training, and certification; Microsoft Press; the Enterprise and Partner Group, which responsible for sales, partner management and partner programs for the enterprise business; and the Public Sector sales and marketing organization. Products Server and Tools provide wide range capabilities that include messaging and collaboration, database management, -commerce, and mobile information access. These products are designed work seamlessly with one another and with advancements applications and development tools. This architecture designed help simplify the design, development, deployment, and management solutions that customers can focus less integrating systems and training users, and more adding strategic value their businesses. Windows Server System also readily integrates with customers\x92 existing non-Microsoft systems, through support for open standards such HTTP and XML, and through native support for XML-based Web services. Windows Server delivers platform for powering connected applications, networks, and Web services from the work group the data center. SQL Server database-and-analysis offering for rapidly delivering the next generation scalable -commerce, line- -business, and data-warehousing solutions. Exchange Server, business tool for -mail collaboration, enables information workers gain access critical business communications. Systems Management Server (SMS) provides comprehensive solution for change and configuration management information systems, which believe enables organizations provide relevant software and updates users quickly and cost-effectively. Small Business Server helps small businesses more with business server solution that includes messaging and collaboration, security-enhanced Internet access, protected data storage, reliable printing, the ability run line- -business applications, and faxing. BizTalk Server designed help customers efficiently and effectively integrate systems, employees, and trading partners through manageable business processes, enabling them automate and orchestrate interactions flexible and highly automated manner. Developer tools focus coordinating the overall programming model for the client and server, creating tools for developing Microsoft NET-connected applications and services, and fostering synergies between Windows and the Windows Server System offerings. Information Worker . The Information Worker segment responsible for developing and delivering technologies that transform information into impact for people and organizations that create, analyze, communicate, and use information every day. The products this segment help people more productive, with more control over their time and more opportunity realize their potential. These applications are critical part the application architecture for many enterprises, enabling businesses liberate information from individual silos, become more agile and flexible, and respond more readily new opportunities. The segment consists the Microsoft Office System programs, servers, services, and solutions. Microsoft Office System , the successor Microsoft Office , was released market the first half fiscal and has evolved from suite personal productivity products more comprehensive and integrated system products designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. The Microsoft Office System features integration with Microsoft intranet collaboration technologies, Information Rights Management, and support for industry standard XML. The Microsoft Office System includes the Microsoft Office Editions, which include (depending upon the edition): Microsoft Office Outlook ; Microsoft Office Excel ; Microsoft Office PowerPoint ; Microsoft Office Word ; and Microsoft Office Access . Other products the Microsoft Office System include: Microsoft Office Visio ; Microsoft Office Project ; Microsoft Office Project Server ; Microsoft Office InfoPath ; Microsoft Office OneNote ; Microsoft Office Publisher ; Microsoft Office FrontPage ; and Microsoft Office SharePoint Portal Server . addition, the Information Worker segment includes Microsoft Office Live Meeting Web conferencing service and professional product support. Historically, approximately percent Information Worker billed revenue comes from multi-year license agreements with large enterprises. Revenues from these licenses generally depend upon the number information workers licensed enterprise. Therefore, our revenue from this category agreements relatively independent the number PCs sold given year, but rather depends the number employees given enterprise. PAGE Part Item Consequently, general employment levels, particularly North America and EMEA, significantly affect Information Worker revenue. Approximately percent Information Worker revenue comes from new licenses acquired through fully packaged product and transactional volume licensing programs individual consumers and enterprises all sizes. Most this revenue sensitive information technology budgets, which often depend general economic conditions. The remaining approximately percent Information Worker revenue from licenses OEMs for new PCs and through sales retail packaged products and affected the relative level shipments. For fiscal , the segment includes the Small and Mid-Market Solutions & Partners (SMS& ) organization, which responsible for sales, partner management, partner programs, and customer segment marketing small and mid-market businesses. During fiscal , combined the existing small and medium business sales force with the sales and marketing assets the Microsoft Business Solutions segment form the SMS& organization. announced the fourth quarter fiscal reorganization which, effective July , , will include the SMS& organization the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. This change designed optimize our focus delivering business applications small and mid-market segment businesses. Microsoft Business Solutions . The Microsoft Business Solutions segment responsible for developing and marketing integrated, end- -end business applications and services designed help small and mid-market businesses achieve success becoming more connected with customers, employees, partners, and suppliers. The applications provide integrated, end- -end automation for financial reporting, distribution, project accounting, electronic commerce, human resources and payroll, manufacturing, supply chain management, business intelligence, sales and marketing management, customer relationship management, and customer service and support. The segment consists the businesses generated from Enterprise Resource Planning (Microsoft Great Plains, Microsoft Navision, Microsoft Solomon and Microsoft Axapta \x96 acquired through our purchase Great Plains and Navision); Microsoft CRM (Customer Relationship Management); Microsoft RMS (Retail Management System); and other business applications and services. Microsoft Business Solutions products are sold, implemented, and supported through partner network consisting value-added resellers, systems integrators, consultants, independent software vendors (ISVs), accounting firms (national, regional, and local), application service providers (ASPs), and eBuilders. Microsoft Business Solutions partners provide distribution, marketing, training, and support the business application customer segment. described previously, beginning the first quarter fiscal , the SMS& organization, which was part the Information Worker segment, will included the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. MSN. MSN responsible for delivering online services that seek empower people bringing them closer the people and information that matter most them. MSN provides personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, and information services such MSN Search and the MSN portals and channels around the world. MSN manages many its own properties, including health, autos, and shopping. MSN also creates alliances with leading third parties for many channels, including top partners like MSNBC com, joint venture between NBC Universal and Microsoft; Foxsports com, property Fox Entertainment Group; Expedia com and Match com, operating units InterActiveCorp and CareerBuilder com. MSN provides variety paid services resulting revenue for the segment, including MSN Internet Access, Premium Web Services (consisting MSN Internet Software Subscription, MSN Hotmail Plus, MSN Bill Pay, and MSN Radio Plus), and MSN Mobile services. The segment generates revenue principally from advertisers the MSN Web sites, from consumers through subscriptions and transactions generated from MSN Premium Web Services, and from subscribers MSN narrowband Internet access. According studies performed Nielson Net Ratings and comScore Media Metrix, MSN Web sites are among the most popular the Internet, visited more than million unique users every month. MSN Hotmail one the world\x92 largest -mail services with more than million accounts, and MSN Messenger one the world\x92 largest instant-messaging services with more than million accounts. Mobile and Embedded Devices . The Mobile and Embedded Devices segment responsible for the development and marketing products that extend the advantages the Windows platform many types devices, including mobile devices that incorporate voice, personal information management, and media capabilities, and wide variety other devices designed improve people\x92 personal and work lives. Microsoft\x92 vision for mobile devices rooted the convergence the computing and wireless industries, which brings new opportunities improve communication and information access for customers. see software key differentiator making smart devices and wireless data services valuable customers through rich experiences such location-based services, media, and speech recognition. are working closely with mobile operators, hardware and ISV partners PAGE Part Item accelerate the development and availability smart devices and services, and provide broad range choices for customers. Further, the segment responsible for managing sales and customer relations with device manufacturers and with network service providers, including telecommunications, cable and wireless companies, and host and network equipment providers. The segment consists the Windows Mobile software platform, the Windows Embedded device operating system family, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. The Windows Mobile software platform provides familiar and integrated customer experience that the basis for specific products like the Pocket , Pocket Phone Edition, Smartphone, and new Portable Media Center. Windows Embedded, including Windows and Windows Embedded, family embedded device software platforms used non- computing devices. Windows Embedded software used widely advanced consumer electronics devices, including digital televisions, Internet Protocol ( )-based set top boxes, network gateways, and portable media players, well enterprise devices such industrial controllers, retail point- -sale systems, and voice-over- phones. The MapPoint family location-enabled products and services includes the MapPoint Web Service, hosted programmable XML Web service that allows developers integrate location intelligence applications, business processes and Web sites, and business and consumer oriented mapping -ROM products. Windows Automotive automotive-grade software platform that provides developers with the building blocks quickly and reliably create broad range advanced telematics solutions. Home and Entertainment . The Home and Entertainment segment primarily responsible for realizing Microsoft\x92 plans grow range new consumer businesses, building the Windows platform offer broad range services and applications running wide variety devices the home. The Home and Entertainment segment responsible for the development and business strategy for the Microsoft Xbox video game system, including hardware, third-party games development, games development published under the Microsoft label, Xbox and Xbox Live operations, marketing, research, and sales and support. The segment leads the development efforts our Home Products Division (HPD) product lines. also carries out all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office, the Windows operating systems, Xbox, games, and HPD products. also responsible for the development, sales, and deployment Microsoft\x92 platform products for the interactive television industry. Microsoft Xbox, released fiscal , our video game console system that delivers high-quality graphics and audio experiences. offer several types entertainment products, including classic software games, online games, simulations, and strategy games. HPD includes Microsoft\x92 line consumer hardware and software products, such the Encarta line learning products and services, the Macintosh applications business, and Microsoft hardware products. EQUITY METHOD INVESTMENTS have entered into joint venture arrangements take advantage creative talent and content from other organizations. The majority our joint ventures are managed the MSN segment. MSNBC Cable ., -hour cable news and information channel and MSNBC Interactive News ., interactive news service, both which are owned % and % National Broadcasting Company (NBC); ninemsn Pty Ltd, Australian internet portal; and T1MSN, internet portal serving Mexico are some our joint venture arrangements. OPERATIONS develop products for sale throughout the world. Our major geographic sales and marketing organizations are the North American Region; the Latin American Region; the Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region (EMEA); Japan; the Asia-Pacific Region; Greater China; and the worldwide OEM channel. serve the needs customers around the world, \x93localize\x94 many our products reflect local languages and conventions, and improve the quality and usability the product international markets. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Our research and development facilities are located primarily Redmond, with smaller facilities located Mountain View, California; Fargo, North Dakota; Beijing, China; Dublin, Ireland; Vedbaek, Denmark; Hyderabad, India; Haifa, Israel; and Cambridge, England. have regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and the greater Seattle area. The centers support all operations their regions, including information processing and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Dublin, Ireland, supports the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region; the center Singapore supports the PAGE Part Item Japan, Greater China and Asia-Pacific region; and the center the greater Seattle area supports North America and Latin America. Microsoft Licensing, , wholly-owned entity Reno, Nevada, manages our original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and certain organizational licensing operations and billing. contract most our manufacturing activities third parties. Outside manufacturers produce the Xbox, various retail software packaged products, and Microsoft hardware. Our products may include some components that are available from only one limited sources. Key components that are currently obtained from single source include the Xbox central processing unit (CPU) from Intel Corporation and the Xbox graphics processing unit (GPU) from NVIDIA Corporation. With the exception the Xbox CPU and GPU, generally have the ability use other custom manufacturers the current manufacturing vendor becomes unavailable. generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. Pressure globalize our pricing structure might require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. number other factors could also have negative effect our business and results from operations outside the United States, including changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region, including foreign exchange rates; difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; and potential adverse foreign tax consequences. hedge portion our international currency exposures, thereby reducing our overall translation exposures. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT During fiscal , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion respectively. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years. Fiscal and have been restated reflect the retroactive adoption SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation . plan continue significant investment broad range research and product development. Most our software products are developed internally. also purchase technology, license intellectual property rights, and oversee third-party development and localization certain products. believe are not materially dependent upon licenses and other agreements with third parties relating the development our products. Internal development allows maintain closer technical control over our products. also gives the freedom decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. Product documentation generally also created internally. strive obtain information the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, provide application vendors with range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Business and Product Development Strategy . The key Microsoft\x92 growth innovation. fiscal , filed for more than , patents for new technologies, and expect that number increase. expect these innovations lead revenue growth from market expansion, share growth, new scenarios and market opportunities, and value-added through services. Key areas focus include: \x95 Market Growth: took more than years grow the worldwide base users + million. , expect this base grow billion, due opportunities emerging markets and new scenarios and form factors expected stimulate demand. Our continued success will depend delivering secure, groundbreaking software and compelling scenarios that capture the imagination end users. are working new and Windows designs make PCs affordable millions additional people around the world. \x95 New Information Worker Scenarios: believe one our biggest growth opportunities with our existing base Office users. plan pursue this market delivering new information worker scenarios such collaboration, authoring, communications, planning and analysis, and expanding the toolset with new technologies such SharePoint, Live Meeting, OneNote and InfoPath. PAGE Part Item \x95 Enhanced Server Position: believe Windows Server and our other server offerings provide customers with significant advantages many areas, including innovation, performance, productivity, applications development tools and environment, security and manageability. addition, offer integrated platform that includes our server and Information Worker applications well partner ISV workloads and applications. \x95 Reducing Complexity and Cost for Professionals and Developers: believe that building applications, integration, and managing information technology are still too hard for customers. are working new ways further lower costs and speed time deploy technology for professionals and developers. believe are already helping reduce costs and increase business value with products such Windows Server , Visual Studio NET, SMS , the Dynamic Systems Initiative, and Microsoft Operations Manager . \x95 Services for Smaller Business and Consumers: The MSN, Windows, and Office teams are working together set integrated services for smaller businesses and consumers designed enhance security, lower costs, and improve the end-user experience areas such communication, collaboration, and desktop management. \x95 Business Solutions: Microsoft Business Solutions continues expand its small and mid-market offerings with key investments technologies for CRM, online services, retail management, and small business. believe have significant opportunity help this underserved market, while creating great opportunities for ISVs and partners. \x95 Non- Consumer Electronics: believe that our work integrate the richness and intelligence the world with everyday devices such mobile phones, handheld devices, home entertainment and provides broad new market opportunity. the center our efforts are products such Pocket and Smartphone, Portable Media Center, MSTV, MSN , Windows Automotive, the Windows Media Center Extender, and other electronic devices built Windows and Windows Embedded. \x95 Entertainment: Likewise, believe there significant opportunity delivering compelling entertainment experiences key scenarios such music, , movies, photos and games. Our vision centers creating new and exciting ways for people have fun with friends and family with Media Center PCs, devices like Xbox and Portable Media Center, and many the other applications and services that Microsoft and our partners deliver. \x95 Advertising Information: The value that MSN and our platform bring advertisers already significant, evidenced the fact that our MSN advertising business today $ billion-plus business. believe the potential expand advertising all our online offerings significant. fiscal , will invest and deliver improvements search, music and other information services that should continue provide good growth opportunities. believe our industry has only scratched the surface search. are making significant investments improve the user experience and deliver the information people want more efficiently and effectively. \x95 Communications: Broadband and wireless technology increasing the amount time people spend online. Younger and savvier Internet users want communications experiences build their social network any device. believe professionals and information workers want integrated, secure functionality that help them manage their personal and professional lives: personalized email, instant messaging, contact management, shared calendars, and relationship management. are pursuing these opportunities developing communications offerings designed provide the greatest benefit consumers and device manufacturers. For example, our Windows Mobile software the basis for new mobile smartphones and for Portable Media Center devices from leading consumer electronics companies. DISTRIBUTION, SALES AND MARKETING distribute our products primarily through the following channels: OEM; distributors and resellers; and online services. Our six major geographic sales and marketing organizations are the North American Region; the Latin American Region; the Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region; Japan; the Asia-Pacific Region and Greater China. OEM . Our operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right build computing devices based our operating systems, principally PCs. Under similar arrangements, also market and license certain server operating systems, desktop applications, hardware devices, and consumer software products OEMs. have OEM agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the PAGE Part Item major OEMs, including Acer, Actebis, Dell, eMachines, Fujitsu, Gateway, , IBM, NEC, Samsung, Siemens Computers, Sony, and Toshiba. substantial amount OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume customized vendors operating local markets. Distributors and Resellers . distribute our finished goods products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Organizations license our products primarily through Large Account Resellers (LARs), Direct Market Resellers (DMRs), and value-added resellers. Many organizations that license products through Enterprise Agreements (EAs) now transact directly with , with sales support from our Enterprise Software Advisor channel partners. These Enterprise Software Advisors typically are also authorized LARs and operate resellers for our other licensing programs. Although each type reselling partner reaches organizations all sizes, LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations and value-added resellers typically reach the breadth small- and medium-sized organizations. Some our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some our largest resellers include Software Spectrum, Software House International, Dell, CDW, and Insight Enterprises. Individual consumers obtain our products primarily through retail outlets, including Best Buy, Wal-Mart, and Target. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers and provides product training and sales support. license software organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer acquire multiple licenses product. These arrangements are designed provide organizations with means acquiring multiple licenses, without having acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. delivering organizational licensing arrangements the market, use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they are follows: Open. Designed primarily for small- -medium organizations ( over licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, rights future versions software products over specified time period (generally two years). The offering that conveys rights future versions software product over the contract period called Software Assurance. Software Assurance also provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Under the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, licenses with Software Assurance. They can also renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Select. Designed primarily for medium- -large organizations (greater than licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, Software Assurance, which consists rights future versions software products, support, tools, and training over specified time period (generally three years). Similar the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with Software Assurance, renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Enterprise Agreement. The Enterprise Agreement targeted medium and large organizations that want acquire perpetual licenses software products for all substantial parts their enterprise, along with rights future versions software products, generally over three-year period. Enterprise Subscription Agreement. The Enterprise Subscription Agreement (ESA) time-based, multi-year licensing agreement. Under ESA, customers acquire the right use the current version software products and the future versions that are released during the three-year term the agreement. the end the term, customers may either renew their ESA exercise buy-out option obtain perpetual licenses for the latest version the covered products. they not elect one these options, then all previously covered software must uninstalled. Online Services . distribute online content and services through MSN and other online services. MSN delivers Internet access and other premium services and tools consumers. MSN also delivers online -mail and messaging communication services well information services such online search and premium content. Microsoft Business Solutions operates the bCentral small-business portal, which delivered online. The bCentral portal provides tools and expertise for small-business owners build, market, and manage their businesses online. Other services delivered online include Xbox Live, Microsoft Developer Networks (MSDN) subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support our partners developing and selling our products and solutions. PAGE Part Item CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet Service Providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through resellers and OEMs. Sales Dell and its subsidiaries the aggregate accounted for approximately % fiscal revenue. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels. single customer accounted for more than % revenue . Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. COMPETITION The software business intensely competitive and subject rapid technological change, evolving customer requirements, and changing business models every segment. face significant competition all areas our business. The rapid pace technological change continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. Customer requirements and preferences continually change other information technologies emerge become less expensive, and concerns such security and privacy become more important. Our direct competitors include firms adopting alternative business models the commercial software model. Firms adopting the non-commercial software model typically provide customers with open source software nominal cost and earn revenue complementary services and products, without having bear the full costs research and development for the open source software. Global software piracy \x96 the unlawful copying and distribution our copyrighted software products \x96 deprives significant amounts revenue annual basis. Future versions our products compete with the existing versions licensed our installed base customers. This means that future versions must deliver significant additional value order induce existing customers purchase new version our product. Our competitive position may adversely affected the future one more the factors described this section, yet undefined additional factors that may arise. Client . Although are the leader operating system software products, face strong competition from well-established companies and entities with differing approaches the market. Competing commercial software products, including variants Unix, are supplied competitors such IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Apple Computer, Sun Microsystems and others, which are vertically integrated both software development and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they preinstall their own computers. Personal computer OEMs who preinstall third-party operating systems may also license these firms\x92 operating systems. The Linux operating system, which also derived from Unix and available without payment under General Public License, has gained increasing acceptance competitive pressures lead personal computer OEMs reduce costs. The Microsoft Windows operating systems also face competition from alternative platforms, well innovative devices that may reduce consumer demand for traditional personal computers. believe our operating system products compete effectively delivering better innovation, easy- -use interface, compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, and the largest support network for any operating system. Server and Tools . Our server operating system products face intense competition from wide variety competing server operating systems and server applications, offered firms with variety market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems and others offer their own variant Unix preinstalled server hardware, and nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system. IBM\x92 endorsement Linux has accelerated its acceptance alternative both traditional Unix and Windows server operating systems. Linux\x92 competitive position has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many leading commercial software developers well non-commercial software developers. number companies supply versions Linux, including Novell and Red Hat. compete the business providing enterprise-wide computing solutions with several companies that provide competing solutions well middleware technology platforms. IBM and Sun Microsystems lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition (J2EE). Commercial software developers that provide competing server applications for the -based distributed client server environments include Oracle, IBM, and Computer Associates. There are also number non-commercial software server applications available. PAGE Part Item Numerous commercial software vendors offer competing commercial software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, and -business servers. Additionally, IBM has large installed base Lotus Notes and :Mail, both which compete with our collaboration and -mail products. There are also significant number non-commercial software products that compete with our solutions, including Apache Web Server. Our developer products compete against offerings from BEA Systems, Borland, IBM, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, and other companies. believe that our server products provide customers with significant advantages innovation, performance (both relative total costs ownership and absolute terms), productivity, applications development tools and environment, compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Information Worker . While are the leader business productivity software applications for personal computers, competitors the Microsoft Office System include many software application vendors such Apple, Corel, IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, and local application developers Europe and Asia. IBM and Corel have significant installed bases with their office productivity products, and both have aggressive pricing strategies. Also, Apple and IBM preinstall certain their application software products various models their PCs, competing directly with our applications. Corel\x92 suite and Sun Microsystems\x92 Star Office are aggressively priced and attractive for OEMs preinstall low-priced PCs. The OpenOffice org project provides freely downloadable cross-platform application that gaining popularity certain market segments. addition traditional client-side applications, Web-based offerings such SimDesk provide alternative Microsoft Office System products. addition, IBM has significant installed base messaging and collaboration software. believe that our products compete effectively providing customers significant benefits, such ease use, personal productivity, support for effective teaming and collaboration, and better information management and control, and providing many customers lower total cost ownership than alternatives. Microsoft Business Solutions . The small and mid-market business applications segment highly fragmented and intensely competitive all sectors where compete. face competition from large number companies this business. Well-known vendors focused small and mid-market business solutions, such Intuit and Sage (along with many others), compete against for portion this segment. addition, large-enterprise focused vendors, such Oracle, PeopleSoft, and SAP, are repositioning some their business applications focus small and medium-sized business and thus also compete against for portion this segment. addition, there are thousands other vendors specific localities industries that offer their own enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), and analytic solutions. believe that our business applications products across financial management, supply chain management, and CRM compete effectively our target segments offering solutions and services that address multiple segment needs across industries through consistent innovation product functionality delivered through growing network partners. MSN . MSN competes with Yahoo!, Google, AOL, Earthlink, . cable and DSL providers, and vast array Web sites and portals that offer content and online services all types. MSN also competes with traditional advertising and print media. the broadband access market grows, expect have increasing opportunities deliver rich and compelling services and experiences for consumers. MSN\x92 advertising revenue has grown considerably over the last year, and expect this trend continue display advertising well search-based advertising, online advertising continues gain market acceptance. This growth has led competitors aggressively pursuing both advertisers and consumers with expanded offerings and new technology. are building our own algorithmic search engine and investing support the continued growth our advertising business. Due the continuing trend consumers migrating from narrowband broadband Internet access, expect our narrowband Internet access subscriber base decline. believe our competitive advantage comes from our ability empower people globally through information software and services that help them find, discover, and experience what they want online. Mobile and Embedded Devices . Windows Mobile software faces substantial competition from Nokia, Openwave Systems, PalmSource, QUALCOMM, and Symbian. The embedded operating system market highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include IBM, Wind River, and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. MapPoint competitors include DeLorme, MapInfo, Mapquest com, Rand McNally, Webraska Mobile Technologies, and Yahoo! The telematics market also highly fragmented, with competitive offerings from IBM and automotive suppliers building various real-time PAGE Part Item , operating system platforms from commercial Linux vendors, QNX Software Systems, Wind River, and others. believe that our products compete effectively providing familiar development framework that enables developers easily write and deploy innovative applications for mobile embedded devices; providing flexible platform that allows customers and partners build differentiated and profitable business models; and providing end users significant benefits such ease use, personal productivity, and better information management and control. Home and Entertainment . The home and entertainment business highly competitive and characterized limited platform life cycles, frequent introductions new products and titles, and the development new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized significant price competition, and anticipate continued pricing pressure from our competitors. These pressures have, from time time, required reduce prices certain products. Our competitors vary size from very small companies with limited resources very large, diversified corporations with substantial financial and marketing resources. compete primarily the basis price, product quality and variety, timing product releases, and effectiveness distribution and marketing. Our Xbox hardware business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large established base customers. addition competing against software published for non-Xbox platforms, our games business also competes with numerous companies that have been licensed develop and publish software for the Xbox console. These competitors include Acclaim Entertainment, Activision, Atari, Capcom, Eidos, Electronic Arts, Sega, Take-Two Interactive, Tecmo, THQ, and Ubi Soft, among others. Success the games business increasingly driven hit titles, which are difficult develop and require substantial investments development and marketing. addition, other forms entertainment such music, motion pictures, and television compete against our entertainment software for consumer spending. believe that our Xbox products compete effectively providing customers benefits such superior game console performance, exclusive game content, and innovative online multiplayer gaming through Xbox Live. Our hardware products face aggressive competition from computer and other hardware manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners. EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. believe have been successful our efforts recruit qualified employees, but cannot guarantee that will continue successful the future. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. believe that our relationship with our employees excellent. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. There make available, free charge, our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file such material with furnish the SEC. Our SEC reports can accessed through the investor relations section our Web site. The information found our Web site not part this any other report file with furnish the SEC. ITEM . PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington: million square feet that total corporate campus space situated slightly more than acres owned land and approximately million square feet leased. are currently renovating two buildings with approximately , square feet that plan occupy fiscal . accommodate future expansion needs purchased approximately acres, and have option purchase approximately additional acres Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet additional office space. own approximately , square feet office building space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. PAGE Part Item , , occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately million square feet that leased and approximately , square feet that owned. These facilities include our European Operations Center that leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and , square-foot facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; Reading, England , square feet; and Mississauga, Canada , square feet. addition the above, have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described \x93Operations\x94 above. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding legal proceedings. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers August , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates III Chairman the Board; Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer James . Allchin Group Vice President, Platforms Group Robert . (Robbie) Bach Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment Douglas . Burgum Senior Vice President, Microsoft Business Solutions David . Cole Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois Senior Vice President; CEO, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Kenneth . DiPietro Corporate Vice President, Human Resources Kevin . Johnson Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services Michelle (Mich) Mathews Corporate Vice President, Marketing Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Information Worker Business Eric . Rudder Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary David Vaskevitch Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Business Platforms . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman since our incorporation. . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms Group December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity, and Vice President, Desktop Applications Marketing since . . Bach joined Microsoft . PAGE Part Item . Burgum joined the Company Senior Vice President upon Microsoft\x92 acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. April . Prior the acquisition, had served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Great Plains. joined Great Plains . . Cole was named Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group November . Before holding that position, had been Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division since August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December and Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . Previously, was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Connors was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer December . had been Vice President, Worldwide Enterprise Group since March . . Connors had been Vice President, Information Technology Group, and Chief Information Officer since July . joined Microsoft . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa March . had been Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Worldwide Customer Marketing since July . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . DiPietro joined Microsoft January Corporate Vice President, Human Resources. Prior joining Microsoft, was Vice President Human Resources for the Americas Dell Computer Corporation. Before joining Dell, was Senior Vice President Human Resources Pepsi-Cola International. . Johnson was named Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services March . had been Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas since February . . Johnson had been Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August , and before that Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. joined Microsoft . . Mathews was named Corporate Vice President, Marketing August . Before holding her current position, . Mathews had been Vice President Corporate Public Relations since . . Mathews joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Information Worker Business June . had been Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services since August . . Raikes had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Rudder was named Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business June . Prior assuming that role, was responsible for managing Developer and Platform Evangelism. . Rudder joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary November . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . . Vaskevitch was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Business Platforms August . had been Senior Vice President, Business Applications since March . . Vaskevitch had been Senior Vice President, Developer since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Distributed Applications Platform. joined Microsoft . PAGE Part Item PART ITEM . MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low September , our board directors declared common stock dividend $ per share, which was paid November . That was the only dividend declared paid fiscal . Our dividend policy based , among other considerations, our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. July , , our board directors approved quarterly dividend $ per share payable September , , shareholders record August , . addition, the board approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over the next four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. The board also approved one-time special dividend $ per share, approximately $ billion, subject shareholder approval stock plan amendments that will allow certain adjustments employee equity compensation awards offset the impact the special dividend. The special dividend will payable December , , shareholders record November , , conditioned upon shareholder approval amendments the employee stock plans the annual meeting shareholders scheduled held November , . did not repurchase any our shares the fourth quarter fiscal . PAGE Part Item ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended June ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share before accounting change $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends per share $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ $ Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , ( ) The financial data presented for fiscal and has been restated prescribed SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure and amendment FASB Statement . , reflect the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation discussed Note . The information presented for and has not been restated. fiscal had been restated, the operating income and net income would have been $ , million and $ , million. fiscal had been restated, the operating income and net income would have been $ , million and $ , million. ( ) Fiscal includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . . Fiscal also includes the acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. for approximately $ billion stock. ( ) Fiscal includes $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. ( ) Fiscal includes the acquisition Navision , Rare Ltd. and Placeware, Inc. for total $ billion cash and $ million stock and other consideration. PAGE Part Item ITEM . MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR , , AND Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis ( & ) contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because factors discussed \x93Issues and Uncertainties\x94 and elsewhere this report. OVERVIEW The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis (\x93 & \x94) intended help the reader understand Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes (\x93Notes\x94). generate revenues, income and cash flows developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products for many computing devices. Our software products include operating systems for servers, personal computers (PCs), and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; and software development tools. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify system integrators and developers. sell the Xbox video game console and games, games and peripherals. Online communication services and information services are delivered through our MSN portals and channels around the world. also research and develop advanced technologies for future software products. Delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our integrated platform are the key meeting customer needs and our future growth. believe that over the last few years have laid foundation for long-term growth, delivering innovative new products, creating opportunity for partners, improving customer satisfaction with key audiences, putting some our most significant legal challenges behind , and solidifying internal processes. Our focus fiscal building this foundation and executing well key areas, including continuing innovate our integrated software platform, delivering compelling value propositions customers, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and continuing focus internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability across the company. Key market opportunities include: \x95 Meeting the needs growing worldwide base users, which project will top billion ; \x95 Delivering new scenarios such collaboration, authoring, communicating, planning, and analysis for information workers; \x95 Continuing compete against Linux and Unix for commercial workloads; \x95 Reducing complexity and cost for professionals and developers; \x95 Delivering services for smaller business, and consumers; \x95 Creating and delivering business solutions for small and mid-market segments; \x95 Creating non- consumer electronics areas such mobile phones, handheld devices, home entertainment and ; \x95 Delivering compelling entertainment experiences areas such music, , movies, photos, and games; \x95 Expanding online advertising, and advances search, music and other information services; \x95 Delivering integrated communications services for consumers and information workers. For fiscal , believe industry-wide factors such unit growth and the success non-commercial software could significantly affect our results operations and financial condition. unit growth was very strong fiscal , increasing approximately % from fiscal . not expect similar growth occur fiscal . PAGE Part Item believe that unit shipments will grow % %, resulting forecasted fiscal Client revenue growth rate that believe will between % and %. continue watch the evolution open source software development and distribution, and continue differentiate our products from competitive products including those based open source software. believe that Microsoft\x92 share server units grew modestly fiscal , while Linux distributions rose slightly faster absolute basis. The increase Linux distributions reflects some significant public announcements support and adoption open source software both the server and desktop markets the last year. the extent open source software products gain increasing market acceptance, sales our products may decline, which could result reduction our revenue and operating margins. Additionally, due primarily our announced special dividend and quarterly dividend payments, continued, expect investment balances and resulting investment income decrease significantly fiscal . have approximately $ billion original Upgrade Advantage contract value that will reach their expiration dates the first quarter fiscal . This revenue was recognized over the last two years and the first quarter fiscal the contract period expires. Summary ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , ( )% Our revenue growth for fiscal was driven licensing Windows Client operating systems through OEMs; Windows Server operating systems, Office, and other server applications result growth and server hardware shipments; and the continuing impact from multi-year licensing that occurred prior the transition our Licensing program the first quarter fiscal . estimate growth shipments was % during fiscal , reflecting global economic improvement, which led strength the consumer segment the first half fiscal and replacement and notebook sales the enterprise segment the second half fiscal . estimate that total server hardware shipments grew %, with Windows Server shipments growing faster than the overall sector % fiscal . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive fiscal , primarily due relative strengthening most foreign currencies versus the . dollar. Had the rates from the prior year been effect fiscal , translated international revenue earned local currencies would have been approximately $ billion lower. hedge portion our international currency exposures, thereby reducing our overall translation exposure. Prior the July , Licensing transition date, experienced significant increase multi-year licensing arrangements customers enrolled our maintenance programs, primarily Upgrade Advantage. Revenue growth fiscal was driven primarily multi-year licensing that occurred before the Licensing transition date the first quarter fiscal . The revenue growth also reflected $ million % increase associated with OEM licensing Microsoft Windows operating systems and $ million % increase revenue from Microsoft Xbox video game consoles. Revenue growth fiscal was led the addition $ billion Xbox video game system revenue and $ billion revenue growth from Microsoft Windows Professional and Home operating systems. For fiscal , the operating income decline $ million was primarily caused the $ billion charges related the Sun Microsystems settlement and fine imposed the European Commission the third quarter fiscal and $ billion stock-based compensation expense related our employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal . Operating income was positively influenced the revenue growth described above and operational improvements our MSN business. fiscal , the growth operating income reflected increase $ billion revenue, partially offset increase $ billion operating expenses, primarily related employee and related costs associated with additional headcount and increased legal settlement expenses, primarily the Time Warner settlement charge $ million. fiscal , the growth operating income reflected increase $ billion revenue, substantially offset increase $ billion operating expenses, which included the onset costs related Xbox video game systems. adopted the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , July , and restated prior periods reflect compensation cost under the recognition provisions SFAS for PAGE Part Item all awards granted employees after July , . Stock-based compensation expenses are included operating expenses part headcount-related costs. Total stock-based compensation costs included operating expenses were $ billion fiscal , $ billion fiscal , and $ billion fiscal . fiscal , not expect revenue grow similarly high rates fiscal , even information technology spending continues improve. While expect general economic conditions remain stable with the improvements seen the second half fiscal , expect and server unit shipment growth rates decline fiscal from the high growth rates fiscal . estimate shipments will grow from % % and Server unit shipments will grow from % % fiscal compared fiscal . These lower growth rates may cause slower revenue growth fiscal . are anticipating little year-over-year foreign exchange rate benefit fiscal . anticipate that will renew between % and % the expiring Upgrade Advantage program revenue through conversions Software Assurance migration Enterprise Agreements. Total revenue expected recognized our Information Worker, Server and Tools, and Client businesses from previously deferred Upgrade Advantage revenue $ million. MSN had strong year fiscal with revenue growth % driven over % growth advertising revenue. fiscal , expect MSN see growth advertising revenue and subscription and transaction revenue from premium Web services, partially offset reduction access revenue narrowband subscribers continue decline. Accordingly, not expect the same level revenue growth for MSN fiscal . Home and Entertainment revenue grew moderately fiscal . not expect significant growth Home and Entertainment fiscal price reductions the second half fiscal related the late stage the Xbox lifecycle are expected lead lower revenue for the Xbox business. expect our operating income growth fiscal exceed our revenue growth. Operating income expected reflect lower operating expenses due the absence certain legal settlements which occurred fiscal , lower stock-based compensation costs, and benefits achieved through continued progress our previously announced cost efficacy initiative. expect that our segments fiscal that reported segment operating loss \x96 Mobile and Embedded Devices, Microsoft Business Solutions, and Home and Entertainment \x96 will make significant progress toward segment profitability fiscal with improved operations. SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) Our seven segments are: Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. The revenue and operating income/(loss) amounts & are presented basis consistent with . GAAP applied the segment level. Certain corporate level expenses have been excluded. Those expenses primarily include corporate operations related sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, , corporate development and procurement activities, research and development and other costs, and accrued legal contingencies. Corporate expenses were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion fiscal , and respectively. Segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements presented accordance with SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . The tables that follow below for each segment present our segment revenue and operating income, determined basis consistent with . GAAP: Client ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , PAGE Part Item Client includes revenue from Windows Professional and Home, Windows Professional, and other standard Windows operating systems. The growth the Client segment\x92 revenue largely correlated with the growth purchases PCs from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems. Client revenue increase was driven % growth OEM licenses and % growth OEM revenue increased consumer unit shipments the first half the fiscal year and growth business unit shipments the second half fiscal . Revenue from commercial and retail licensing declined % due lower revenue earned from Upgrade Advantage licensing agreements and lower packaged product sales. fiscal , Client revenue growth was driven OEM licensing revenue growth $ million and percentage point increase the mix the higher priced Windows Professional operating systems, the majority which was the OEM channel. Windows Professional revenue growth for fiscal was $ billion, %, compared fiscal . The Windows Professional growth fiscal was partially offset $ million decline revenue from earlier versions Windows operating systems. Client operating income was flat for fiscal compared fiscal due increased operating expenses primarily related the charge for the Sun Microsystems settlement $ million the third quarter fiscal and $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal , offset growth revenue. Operating income for fiscal increased primarily result the % growth revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses, largely attributed headcount additions and related costs. estimate that market growth will from % % fiscal . expect emerging markets continue outpace mature market growth rates and expect hold our share these respective markets. The differential market growth rate expected result lower unit license growth the OEM business and lower revenue growth, piracy continues problematic emerging markets, and significant price changes are not anticipated. plan continue our efforts increase premium product mix but expect see only modest improvements fiscal . The Client commercial and retail licensing revenues are expected continue lag behind overall Client revenue growth. expect operating profits percentage Client revenue improve fiscal , due the legal settlements expenses and stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program fiscal . Major investments fiscal include development the Windows Client next generation operating system (Longhorn), security programs, and marketing initiatives, including those related Windows Service Pack and other new products. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ $ , % $ ( )% Server and Tools consists server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and other servers. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier product support services, and Microsoft consulting services. Growth the overall market for information technology, both hardware and software, the principal driver for Server and Tools revenue growth. The segment concentrates licensing products, applications, tools, content, and services that make information technology professionals and developers more productive and efficient. Products are sold through OEMs, distributors, direct customers, and through one-time licenses multi-year volume license agreements. estimate that overall server hardware shipments grew % fiscal compared the prior year. Server and Server applications revenue, including CAL revenue, grew $ billion % driven primarily estimated % increase Windows-based server shipments resulting % growth new Windows Server licenses, and favorable conversion revenue billed foreign currencies . dollars. Consulting and Premier product support services revenue increased $ million % compared fiscal due increased customer penetration from new product offerings. Revenue from developer tools, training, certification, and Microsoft Press and other services declined $ million % compared fiscal due recognition revenue deferred prior years. Foreign exchange rates contributed approximately $ million % Server and Tools revenue growth. PAGE Part Item Total Server and Tools revenue grew $ million % fiscal , driven increase Windows-based server shipments and growth SQL Server and Exchange revenue. Windows Server and CALs revenue grew $ million % from fiscal result increased new and anniversary multi-year licensing agreements. Consulting and Premier product support services increased $ million % compared fiscal . Revenue from developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, and other services increased $ million % from fiscal . Server and Tools operating income for fiscal declined primarily due the charge for the Sun Microsystems settlement $ billion the third quarter fiscal and $ million stock-based compensation costs from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal . Server and Tools operating income for fiscal grew %, primarily result the % increase revenue. anticipate that overall server hardware shipments will grow from % % fiscal and new licenses Windows Server operating system will grow slightly faster than the overall market. believe that Windows Server shipments will create opportunities for sales Windows Server System products. However, face strong competition from the Linux-based, Unix, and other server operating systems. addition, Server and Tools net revenue for fiscal will unfavorably affected the absence revenue earned from our Upgrade Advantage program and anticipated foreign exchange benefit. Information Worker ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , % Information Worker consists the Microsoft Office System programs, servers, services, and solutions designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. Information Worker includes Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint Portal Server CALs, other information worker products including Microsoft LiveMeeting and OneNote, and professional product support services. Most revenue from this segment comes from licensing our Office System products. Revenue growth depends the ability add value the core Office product set and expand our product offerings other Information Worker areas such document lifecycle and collaboration. Revenue growth for fiscal from volume licensing, retail packaged product and pre-installed versions Office Japan was % aggregate. This increase was driven recognition unearned revenue primarily from large increase multi-year licenses signed prior the transition our Licensing programs and approximately $ million related the launch Office . OEM licensing revenue grew % $ million. Foreign exchange rates provided approximately $ million % total Information Worker revenue growth. The $ billion % increase revenue fiscal compared fiscal was primarily due growth Office suites revenue associated with new and anniversary multi-year licensing agreements and $ million % increase revenue from the combined total Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, and other stand-alone applications. Information Worker operating income fiscal increased from the prior year primarily due growth revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses, primarily related $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal and higher sales and marketing expenses. Information Worker operating profit for fiscal grew % compared fiscal , led the % increase revenue and partially offset % growth operating expenses related headcount additions and marketing expenses. Fiscal Information Worker revenue expected similar fiscal . are expecting reduction revenue earned from our Upgrade Advantage licensing agreements and anticipated foreign exchange rate benefit. The significant reduction Upgrade Advantage earned revenue expected offset sustained momentum our OEM and multi-year licensing offerings and increased purchasing Office System enterprises complete their product evaluations. PAGE Part Item Microsoft Business Solutions ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ $ % $ % Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) % $ ( ) ( )% Microsoft Business Solutions includes Microsoft Great Plains, Microsoft Navision, Microsoft Axapta, Microsoft Solomon, Microsoft CRM, MBN Retail Manager and other business applications and services. Our revenue generally derived from developing and marketing integrated, end- -end business applications and services designed help small and mid-market businesses. The small and mid-market business applications market highly fragmented and intensely competitive all sectors. Microsoft Business Solutions revenues are affected the general economic environment and enterprise information technology spending particular. The revenue increase fiscal was primarily attributable continued growth licensing Navision and Axapta ERP products, and new sales Microsoft CRM. Microsoft Business Solutions revenue for fiscal grew $ million from fiscal , which $ million was attributable the acquisition Navision the beginning the fiscal year. The operating loss for fiscal declined from fiscal due the increase revenue and lower operating expenses including $ million lower amortization costs, partially offset $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal . Microsoft Business Solutions operating loss for fiscal increased from fiscal primarily due operating losses associated with Navision, increases sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, and acquisition-related costs. announced the fourth quarter fiscal plan align and include the Small and Mid-Market Solutions & Partners (SMS& ) organization the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. This change designed optimize our focus delivering business applications small and mid-market segment businesses. The SMS& organization currently part the Information Worker segment. This reorganization will result corresponding change the Microsoft Business Solutions and Information Worker reported results, primarily from the reorganization approximately $ million revenue and costs associated with our Partner program offerings, which will move from Information Worker segment Microsoft Business Solutions. fiscal , expect continued growth for Microsoft Business Solutions through CRM, Axapta, Navision, and Great Plains product lines with increased sales and marketing focus from the SMS& organization, and new product launches for Great Plains and Navision. MSN ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income/(loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) ( )% $ The MSN segment includes personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, and information services, such MSN Search and the MSN portals and channels around the World. MSN also provides variety paid services resulting revenue for the segment including MSN Internet Access, and MSN Premium Web Services. Revenue principally generated from advertisers MSN, from consumers through subscriptions and transactions generated from MSN Premium Web Services and from subscribers MSN Narrowband Internet Access. fiscal , MSN advertising revenue increased $ million % result growth paid search and growth the overall Internet advertising market. This increase was partially offset decline $ million % Internet access revenue, primarily from the migration internet access subscribers broadband other competitively priced Internet service providers. Revenue from subscription and transaction services other than Internet access increased $ million fiscal $ million. the end the current fiscal year, MSN had million internet access subscribers compared million the end the prior fiscal year and million total subscribers compared million the end the prior year. addition, MSN has over million unique users PAGE Part Item monthly, million active Hotmail accounts, and million active Messenger accounts. Compared fiscal , MSN advertising revenue grew $ million % fiscal result growth paid search and strong online advertising sales across all geographic regions. MSN subscription revenue grew $ million % fiscal reflecting increase the number paying non-promotion subscribers. MSN reached segment profitability the first quarter fiscal and was profitable for the full fiscal year. The improvement profitability was primarily driven increase revenue from advertising both display and paid search, decline customer acquisition costs and other expenses related the Internet access business, efficiency gains the operations the advertising and subscription businesses, and $ million refund prior year taxes, partially offset $ million stock-based compensation expense related the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal . MSN operating loss for fiscal decreased from fiscal , primarily result the growth revenue and lower relative subscription acquisition and support costs. MSN expects advertising revenue and revenue from subscriptions and transactions for premium Web services increase fiscal . Advertising revenue should benefit from expected increases Internet spending and additions the advertising platform including music download service, communication innovations, and improved search engine. expect revenue from narrowband Internet access decline fiscal narrowband subscribers continue migrate broadband Internet access. announced the fourth quarter fiscal increase the amount storage will provide for select MSN and Hotmail email accounts which will increase operating costs and may impact the revenues from our extra storage customers. However, expect the segment increase its profitability fiscal , led continued operational efficiencies and lower unit margin costs both the subscriber and advertising businesses. Mobile and Embedded Devices ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ $ % $ % Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) % $ ( ) ( )% Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded device operating systems, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. The segment\x92 products extend the advantages the Windows platform mobile phones and Pocket PCs. The segment also responsible for managing sales and customer relations with device manufacturers and with network service providers, including telecommunications, cable and wireless companies, and host and network equipment providers. The embedded operating system market highly fragmented with many competitive offerings and relatively short product life cycles that affect our continuing revenue streams. Unit volume increases drove revenue growth for fiscal over fiscal all product lines. The growth was primarily due the increase the number OEMs and mobile operators shipping Windows Mobile software for SmartPhones, increases market share for our Pocket and embedded products and increased usage existing customers our MapPoint Web Service. Revenue for fiscal grew $ million driven increased Pocket shipments and MapPoint licensing. Mobile and Embedded Devices\x92 operating loss for fiscal decreased compared fiscal primarily due growth revenue and lower marketing expenses, partially offset $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal . Operating loss for fiscal grew % from the prior year higher marketing expenses and headcount-related costs associated with product development offset the growth revenue. expect demand for mobile and embedded devices based Windows Mobile software driven overall increase customer demand for connectivity well increase the number OEMs and mobile operators offering Windows-based devices. PAGE Part Item Home and Entertainment ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) % $ ( , ) % Home and Entertainment includes the Microsoft Xbox video game console system, games, the Home Products Division (HPD), and platform products for the interactive television industry. The relative success competing video game consoles determined console functionality, the portfolio video game content for the console, and the relative market share the console. are relatively new entrant the video game console businesses with our first release fiscal , and have established ourselves one the leaders. Revenue and unit volumes have grown quickly since , but revenue growth moderated fiscal due price reductions typical this stage the console lifecycle. believe our competitive position and revenue bolstered our increasing software game attach rates, providing higher margins offset the decreasing price trend consoles sold. fiscal , Xbox revenue increased $ million % with $ million related higher Xbox software volumes and $ million due higher Xbox console volumes, partially offset $ million decline related price reductions Xbox consoles and software. Overall, Xbox console volumes increased % fiscal compared fiscal . The Xbox life- -date . games attach rate increased games per console according industry analyst NPD June , . Revenue from consumer hardware and software, games and platforms declined $ million % compared fiscal due lower games software and gaming devices sales, partially offset the new release Mac Office. The increase Home and Entertainment revenue fiscal from fiscal was the result sales Xbox video game systems and related games which were available for all fiscal . Xbox revenue grew $ million % fiscal reflecting $ million increase from higher volumes for Xbox consoles, games, and peripherals partially offset $ million decrease due price changes. Revenue from consumer hardware and software and games declined $ million % fiscal , driving the decrease Home Products revenue. The increase operating loss fiscal was primarily due $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal , increased sales negative margin consoles, and costs associated with the next generation console development efforts, partially offset increased Xbox and Mac Office software sales. The operating loss increase from fiscal also included lower cost market adjustment approximately $ million, reflecting the current stage the lifecycle the Xbox console. Operating loss increased $ million % from the prior year the product costs associated with the increased Xbox console sales and increased marketing expense more than offset the % increase revenue. fiscal , expect Xbox console unit volumes and revenue decrease from fiscal consistent with this stage the Xbox console lifecycle, partially offset increased unit volumes driven the launch software titles such Halo2. fiscal expect games revenue decrease from fiscal driven fewer new game titles. Other HPD revenue are expected increase moderately result the launch the latest version Mac Office late the fourth quarter fiscal . fiscal , expect operating margins improve from fiscal driven lower unit volumes negative margin consoles and increased sales high margin software. expect development spending higher fiscal driven investment the next generation Xbox platform design. Cost revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Cost revenue $ , $ , % $ , % percent revenue % % ( ) % ( ) PAGE Part Item Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products and programs sold, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. The increase fiscal was primarily due increased product support and consulting services costs $ million, $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program, and lower cost market adjustment the fourth quarter fiscal approximately $ million, reflecting the current stage the life cycle the Xbox console, partially offset $ million decrease MSN services costs. fiscal , the primary driver the increase was percentage point increase from Home and Entertainment products and percentage point decrease from MSN product and service costs fiscal compared fiscal . Research and development ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Research and development $ , $ , % $ , % percent revenue % % ( ) % Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, equity compensation and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. The increase fiscal was primarily due $ billion stock-based compensation expenses related the option transfer program the second quarter fiscal well other headcount-related payroll and other employee costs related % growth research and development headcount from fiscal . fiscal , the increase reflects increase headcount-related costs, % increase third-party product development costs, and % increase testing laboratory equipment and expense. Sales and marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Sales and marketing $ , $ , % $ , % percent revenue % % % ( ) Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, equity compensation and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other marketing-related programs. Sales and marketing costs increased fiscal due $ million stock-based compensation expenses related the option transfer program the second quarter fiscal and other headcount-related costs related % growth sales and marketing headcount. fiscal , the sales and marketing expense increase $ billion dollars was due increase sales expenses related headcount additions, principally related the Enterprise and Small Medium Business sales forces, and % increase marketing expenses. General and administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) General and administrative $ , $ , % $ , % percent revenue % % % PAGE Part Item General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, equity compensation and other headcount-related costs associated with the finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources, and other administrative headcount, and legal costs and other administrative fees. General and administrative costs increased fiscal primarily due legal expenses including $ billion charges related the Sun Microsystems settlement, $ million fine imposed the European Commission the third quarter fiscal , $ million stock-based compensation expense related the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal , other legal costs approximately $ million, and other headcount related costs. General and administrative costs fiscal increased $ million from fiscal due charge $ million related settlement with Time Warner the fourth quarter and $ million charge reflecting increase our estimate costs related resolving pending antitrust and unfair competition consumer class action lawsuits. Investment Income/(Loss), and Income Taxes Investment Income/(Loss) The components investment income/(loss) each fiscal year are follows: ( millions) / Year Ended June Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net recognized gains (losses) investments ( , ) , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income /(loss) $ ( ) $ , $ , Dividends and interest income decreased $ million fiscal mainly due lower dividend income resulting from the exchange & % convertible preferred debt for common shares Comcast during fiscal and declining interest rates, partly offset larger investment portfolio. Net recognized gains (losses) investments include other-than-temporary impairments $ million fiscal compared $ billion the prior year well higher net realized gains sales fiscal moved more liquid investment asset classes. Net realized gains sales were $ billion fiscal and $ billion fiscal . The decline impairments was due improved market conditions. Derivative losses decreased $ million $ million fiscal compared fiscal primarily due the combined effects interest rate movements interest rate sensitive instruments and equity market price movements relative positions used hedge the fair value certain equity securities. fiscal , dividends and interest income decreased $ million driven primarily reduction dividend income $ million resulting from the exchange & % convertible preferred debt for common shares Comcast during the second quarter fiscal , and declining interest rates partially offset larger investment portfolio. Net recognized gains (losses) investments includes other-than-temporary impairments $ billion fiscal compared $ billion fiscal and net realized gains investments $ billion fiscal compared $ billion fiscal . The decrease other-than-temporary impairments was also due the reduced cost-basis investments resulting from significant impairments investments the cable and telecommunications sectors. fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments $ billion primarily related our investment & and other cable and telecommunication investments. Net realized gains the sales investments $ billion included $ billion gain sale our interest Expedia. Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other than temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other than temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. PAGE Part Item Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for fiscal was %. benefit $ million was recorded during the fourth quarter from the reversal previously accrued taxes from resolving the remaining open issue remanded the 9th Circuit Court Appeals ruling December . The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter fiscal was approximately %. During the third quarter the tax rate increased due the European Commission fine, which not tax deductible. The effective tax rate for fiscal and fiscal was % each year. The fiscal rate reflected benefit the second quarter $ million from the reversal previously accrued taxes related the initial items from the 9th Circuit Court Appeals ruling referred above, that reversed, part, previous Tax Court ruling that had denied tax benefits certain revenue earned from the distribution software foreign customers. Excluding this reversal, the effective tax rate would have been %. Stock-based Compensation. implemented changes fiscal employee compensation designed help continue attract and retain the best employees, and better align employee interests with those our shareholders. Generally, employees are now granted stock awards instead stock options. The stock award program offers employees the opportunity earn shares our stock over time, rather than options that give employees the right purchase stock set price. also completed employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal whereby employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested stock options with strike price $ higher (\x93eligible options\x94) JPMorgan Chase Bank (JPMorgan). The unvested eligible options that were transferred JPMorgan became vested upon the transfer. The price paid JPMorgan for the transferred options was determined reference the arithmetic average the closing prices Microsoft common stock during the period from November , December , , which was $ . Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plan the Notes the Financial Statements provides additional information employee stock and savings plans. addition, effective July , , adopted the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure . Under the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the value the award and recognized expense over the vesting period. The June , balance sheet has been restated for the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , which resulted $ billion increase common stock and paid- capital, $ billion decrease retained earnings, and $ billion increase deferred income taxes. Given these changes the following table provides stock-based compensation expense for fiscal through segment. ( millions, except expense per share) ( ) Client $ $ $ Server and Tools , , , Information Worker Microsoft Business Solutions MSN Mobile and Embedded Devices Home and Entertainment Corporate , Stock-based employee compensation expense $ , $ , $ , After-tax stock-based employee compensation expense $ , $ , $ , After-tax stock-based employee compensation expense per diluted share $ $ $ ( ) The amounts for fiscal include $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) due the completion the employee stock option transfer program. PAGE Part Item FINANCIAL CONDITION Our cash and short-term investment portfolio totaled $ billion June , . Equity and other investments were $ billion June , . The portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions, order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, that are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. For certain other licensing arrangements revenue attributable undelivered elements, including free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home, approximately % % the sales price for Windows Professional, and approximately % % the sales price for desktop applications, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three-and-one-half years for Windows operating systems and two years for desktop applications. Unearned revenue also includes payments for online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed and payments for post-delivery support services performed the future. Unearned revenue June , decreased $ million from June , , reflecting recognition unearned revenue from multi-year licensing that has outpaced additions $ million, primarily due recognition from Upgrade Advantage licensing agreements and $ million decline revenue deferred for undelivered elements. Starting April , revenue deferred for undelivered elements reflected lower deferral rates, partially offset lengthened product life cycles for the underlying products licensed, resulting higher proportion revenue earned. earned approximately $ billion and $ billion from the Upgrade Advantage programs for fiscal and , respectively and expect earn approximately $ million fiscal from those programs. Cash Flows Cash flow from operations for fiscal decreased $ billion $ billion. The decrease primarily reflects the combined cash outflows $ billion related the Sun Microsystems settlement and the European Commission fine mentioned above partially offset increased cash receipts from customers driven the rise revenue billings. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from the prior year. The decrease reflects that did not repurchase any common stock the fourth quarter fiscal combined with $ million increase primarily from stock issuances related employee stock options exercises, partially offset $ million increase cash dividends paid. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from fiscal , due $ billion decrease net investment purchases and $ billion decrease acquisition spending. Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . The increase primarily reflects the rise cash receipts from customers driven the increase revenue billings and maintenance relatively stable accounts receivable levels. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ million from the prior year. The increase reflects cash dividend payment $ million and increase $ million common stock repurchase, offsetting $ million received for common stock issued. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from fiscal , due stronger portfolio performance sold and matured investments. Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . The increase reflected strong growth unearned revenue result the significant number customers that purchased Upgrade Advantage during the Licensing transition period. This resulted increase billings and corresponding increase the unearned revenue amount. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from the prior year. The decrease reflected the repurchase put warrants the prior year. PAGE Part Item repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal . addition, million shares common stock were acquired fiscal under structured stock repurchase transaction. entered into the structured stock repurchase transaction fiscal , which gave the right acquire million our shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . have material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment under which incurred rental expense totaling $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal , , and , respectively. have issued residual value guarantees connection with various operating leases. These guarantees provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. July , , our board directors approved quarterly dividend $ per share payable September , , shareholders record August , . addition, the board approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft Common stock over the next four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. The board also approved one-time special dividend $ per share, approximately $ billion, subject shareholder approval stock plan amendments that will allow certain adjustments employee equity compensation awards offset the impact the special dividend. The special dividend will payable December , , shareholders record November , , conditioned upon shareholder approval amendments the employee stock plans the annual meeting shareholders scheduled held November , . believe existing cash and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements and our special dividend well regular quarterly dividends. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and short-term investments, well equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. continuously assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations Off-balance sheet arrangements have unconditionally guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company (Jupiter). These guarantees arose February , conjunction with the expiration prior financing arrangements, including previous guarantees . The financing arrangements were entered into Jupiter part financing its operations. part Jupiter\x92 new financing agreement, agreed guarantee repayment Jupiter the loans approximately $ million. The estimated fair value and the carrying value the guarantees was $ million and did not result charge operations. The guarantees are effect until the earlier either repayment the loans, including accrued interest and fees, February , . The maximum amount the guarantees limited the sum the total due and unpaid principal amounts, accrued and unpaid interest, and any other related expenses. Additionally, the maximum amount the guarantees, denominated Japanese yen, will vary based fluctuations foreign exchange rates. were required make payments under the guarantees, might recover all portion those payments upon liquidation Jupiter\x92 assets. The proceeds from asset liquidation cannot accurately estimated due the many factors that would affect the valuation and realization the proceeds. PAGE Part Item provide indemnifications varying scope and amount certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies, interpreted FIN . consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Contractual obligations The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) ( ) Payments due period - - and thereafter Total Long-term debt $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 Construction commitments ( ) \x96 \x96 Lease obligations: Capital leases \x96 Operating leases ( ) Purchase commitments ( ) , \x96 , Other long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 Total contractual obligations $ , $ $ $ $ , ( ) have excluded the recorded $ billion contingent liability related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits referred the third paragraph Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements the timing and amount resolved cash versus vouchers subject uncertainty. ( ) have certain commitments for the construction buildings. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Our future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases comprise the majority the operating lease obligations presented above. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Purchase commitments represent obligations under agreements which are not unilaterally cancelable , are legally enforceable and specify fixed minimum amounts quantities goods services fixed minimum prices. generally require purchase orders for vendor and third-party spending. The amount presented above purchase commitments includes analysis all known contracts exceeding $ million the aggregate well all known open purchase orders. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) have excluded unearned revenue $ billion from other long-term liabilities presented above these will not settled cash. have also excluded the liability recorded for the Jupiter guarantee $ million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS December , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation 46R (FIN 46R), revision Interpretation (FIN ), Consolidation Variable Interest Entities. FIN 46R clarifies some the provisions FIN and exempts certain entities from its requirements. FIN 46R effective the end the first interim period ending after March , . Entities that have adopted FIN prior this effective date can continue apply the provisions FIN until the effective date FIN 46R elect early adoption FIN 46R. The adoption FIN and FIN 46R did not have material impact our financial statements. March , the FASB ratified the recognition and measurement guidance and certain disclosure requirements for impaired securities described Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue . - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application Certain Investments. The recognition and measurement guidance will PAGE Part Item applied other-than-temporary impairment evaluations reporting periods beginning with our first fiscal quarter . not believe the adoption the recognition and measurement guidance EITF Issue . - will have material impact our financial statements. July , the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) consensus Issue . - , Whether Investor Should Apply the Equity Method Accounting Investments Other Than Common Stock , which provides guidance regarding application the equity method accounting investments other than common stock. EITF Issue . - will effective beginning with our second quarter fiscal . not believe the adoption EITF Issue . - will have material impact our financial statements. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, and accounting for income taxes. account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Software Revenue Recognition. The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) fair value exists for those elements. Customers receive certain elements our products over period time. These elements include free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, the fair value which recognized over the product\x92 estimated life cycle. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities, provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, evaluate, among other factors, the duration and extent which the fair value investment less than its cost; the financial health and near-term business outlook for the investee, including factors such industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow; and our intent and ability hold the investment. Investments with indicator are further evaluated determine the likelihood significant adverse affect the fair value and amount the impairment necessary. the past, have had substantial impairments our portfolio discussed Note \x96 Investment Income/(Loss). market, industry and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (July for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This requires significant judgments including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. account for research and development costs accordance with several accounting pronouncements, including SFAS , Accounting for Research and Development Costs, and SFAS , Accounting for the Costs Computer PAGE Part Item Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed. SFAS specifies that costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product should charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies, requires that estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial position our results operations. SFAS , Accounting for Income Taxes, establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position our results operations. ISSUES AND UNCERTAINTIES This Annual Report Form - contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because issues and uncertainties such those listed below and elsewhere this report, which, among others, should considered evaluating our future financial performance. Challenges our Business Model. Since our inception, our business model has been based upon customers agreeing pay fee license software developed and distributed . Under this commercial software model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution their products. believe the commercial software model has had substantial benefits for users software, allowing them rely our expertise and the expertise other software developers that have powerful incentives develop innovative software that useful, reliable, and compatible with other software and hardware. recent years, there has been growing challenge the commercial software model. Under the non-commercial software model, open source software produced loosely associated groups unpaid programmers and made available for license end users without charge distributed firms nominal cost that earn revenue complementary services and products, without having bear the full costs research and development for the open source software. The most notable example open source software the Linux operating system. While believe our products provide customers with significant advantages security and productivity, and generally have lower total cost ownership than open source software, the popularization the non-commercial software model continues pose significant challenge our business model, including recent efforts proponents open source software convince governments worldwide mandate the use open source software their purchase and deployment software products. the extent opens source software gains increasing market acceptance, sales our products may decline, may have reduce the prices charge for our products, and revenue and operating margins may consequently decline. Intellectual Property Rights . defend our intellectual property rights, but unlicensed copying and use software and intellectual property rights represents loss revenue . While this adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the United States more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits PAGE Part Item licensing genuine products and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may not affect revenue positively, and revenue could adversely affected further deterioration compliance with existing legal protections reductions the legal protection for intellectual property rights software developers. From time time receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow. Responding these claims may require enter into royalty and licensing agreements unfavorable terms, require stop selling redesign affected products, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. are required enter into such agreements take such actions, our operating margins may decline result. have made and expect continue making significant expenditures acquire the use technology and intellectual property rights, including via cross-licenses broad patent portfolios. Unauthorized Disclosure Source Code . Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and software programs, the most significant asset own. While license certain portions our source code for various software programs and operating systems number licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. unauthorized disclosure significant portion our source code occurs, could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss future trade secret protection could make easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code could also increase certain risks described below under \x93Security\x94. New Products and Services. have made significant investments research, development and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including Longhorn, Microsoft NET, Xbox, business applications, MSN, and mobile and wireless technologies. Significant revenue from new product and service investments may not achieved for number years, all. Moreover, these products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for these businesses may not high the margins have experienced historically. Litigation. discussed Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements, are subject variety claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes some all the pending cases may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against . are also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. While management currently believes that resolving all these matters, individually the aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position results operations, the litigation and other claims noted above are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. There exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Security. Maintaining the security computers and computer networks issue critical importance for and our customers. There are malicious hackers who develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. While this industry-wide phenomenon that affects computers across all platforms, our customers particular have been victims such attacks and will likely continue . are devoting significant resources addressing these critical issues. are focusing our efforts engineering more secure products, optimizing security and reliability options and settings when deliver products, and providing guidance help our customers make the best use our products and services protect against computer viruses and other attacks their computing environment. addition, are working improve the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities discovered after our products are released. are also investing mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed. are also advising customers how help protect themselves from security threats through the use our online automated security tools, our published security guidance, and the deployment security software such firewalls, antivirus, and other security software. These steps could adversely affect our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products could lead some customers seek return products, reduce delay future purchases, purchase competitive products. Customers may also increase their expenditures protecting their computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption new technologies. Any these actions customers could adversely affect our revenue. PAGE Part Item Declines Demand for Software. overall market demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines significantly, consumer corporate spending for such products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. Additionally, our revenue would unfavorably impacted customers reduce their purchases new software products upgrades existing products because new product offerings are not perceived adding significant new functionality other value prospective purchasers. significant number customers purchased license agreements providing upgrade rights specific licensed products prior the transition Licensing July . These agreements generally expired throughout fiscal and will largely expired the end the first fiscal quarter . The rate which such customers renew these contracts could adversely affect future revenue. are making significant investments the next release the Windows operating system, code-named Longhorn. this system not perceived offering significant new functionality value prospective purchasers, our revenue and operating margins could adversely affected. Product Development Schedule. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new product releases significant problems creating new products, particularly any delays the Longhorn operating system, could adversely affect our revenue. General Economic and Geo-Political Risks. Softness corporate information technology spending other changes general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenue. Terrorist activity and armed conflict pose the additional risk general economic disruption and could require changes our operations and security arrangements, thus increasing our operating costs. These conditions lend additional uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Competition. continue experience intensive competition across all markets for our products and services. These competitive pressures may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives, resulting lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. Taxation Extraterritorial Income. August , World Trade Organization (\x93WTO\x94) dispute panel determined that the tax provisions the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act (\x93ETI\x94) constitute export subsidy prohibited the WTO Agreement Subsidies and Countervailing Measures. The . government appealed the panel\x92 decision and lost its appeal. March , , the European Union began imposing retaliatory tariffs specified list .-source goods. May, the . Senate passed the Jumpstart our Business Strength (JOBS) Act that would repeal ETI, provide three-year phase-out current ETI benefits, and would replace ETI with phased- % domestic production activity deduction that would not fully effective until . The . House Representatives passed similar legislation June that would repeal ETI effective December , , provide two-year phase-out ETI benefits, and replace ETI with % tax rate reduction for income from domestic production activities that would full phased . Neither bill will fully replace our current ETI tax benefits. Both bills must still reconciled conference, and significant changes could made the final legislation, remain unable assess the ultimate form and financial impact this legislation, enacted. the ETI provisions are repealed and financially comparable replacement tax legislation not enacted, the loss the ETI tax benefit could significant. Other Potential Tax Liabilities. are subject income taxes both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. are regularly under audit tax authorities. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different than that which reflected historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes assessed result audit litigation, material effect our income tax provision and net income the period periods for which that determination made could result. Insurance Programs. addition conventional third-party insurance arrangements, have entered into captive insurance arrangements for the purpose protecting against possible catastrophic and other risks not covered traditional insurance markets. June , , the face value captive insurance arrangements was $ PAGE Part Item , billion. Actual value any particular time will vary due deductibles, exclusions, other restrictions, and claims. While believe these arrangements are effective way insure against such risks, the potential liabilities associated with certain the issues and uncertainties discussed this document other events could exceed the coverage provided such arrangements. Business Disruptions the Event Catastrophic Event. are highly automated business and disruption failure our systems the event major earthquake, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales and providing services. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could severely affect our ability conduct normal business operations and, result, our future operating results could adversely affected. Other . Other issues and uncertainties may include: \x95 warranty and other claims for hardware products such Xbox; \x95 sales channel disruption, such the bankruptcy major distributor; \x95 the effects the Consent Decree . . Microsoft and Final Judgment State New York . Microsoft the Windows operating system and server business, including those associated with protocol and other disclosures required the Decree and Final Judgment and the ability manufacturers hide end-user access certain new Windows features; \x95 currency fluctuations; \x95 our ability implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth; \x95 the continued availability third-party distribution channels for MSN service and other online services; \x95 factors associated with our international operations, described under Operations Part , Item this report; and \x95 financial market volatility other changes affecting the value our investments, such the Comcast Corporation securities held that may result reduction carrying value and recognition losses including impairment charges. ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK are exposed foreign currency, interest rate, and fixed income and equity price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results operations and financial position. hedge portion anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed income securities are subject interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and structured minimize credit risk. Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject price risk, and are generally not hedged. However, use options hedge our price risk certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. use value- -risk (VAR) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VAR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. The model used for currencies and equities geometric Brownian motion, which allows incorporation optionality with regard these risk exposures. For interest rate risk, the mean reverting geometric Brownian motion used reflect the principle that fixed-income securities prices revert maturity value over time. Value- -risk calculated , first, simulating , market price paths over days for equities, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, taking into account historical correlations among the different rates and prices. Each PAGE Part Item resulting unique set equities prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates then applied substantially all individual holdings -price each holding. The worst performance (out , ) represents the value- -risk over days the percentile confidence level. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. Certain securities our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. hedge the value portion these securities through the use derivative contracts such put-call collars. these arrangements, hedge security\x92 equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most all the benefits the security\x92 appreciation above the sold call strike, exchange for premium received for the sold call. also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. have incurred material impairment charges related these securities prior periods. The VAR amounts disclosed below are used risk management tool and reflect estimate potential reductions fair value our portfolio. Losses fair value over -day holding period can exceed the reported VAR significant amounts and can also accumulate over longer time horizon than the -day holding period used the VAR analysis. VAR amounts are not necessarily reflective potential accounting losses, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with . GAAP. The VAR numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency, and equity risks. These VAR numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. use historical data estimate VAR. Given the reliance historical data, VAR most effective estimating risk exposures markets which there are fundamental changes shifts market conditions. inherent limitation VAR that the distribution past changes market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions future market risk. The following table sets forth the VAR calculations for substantially all our positions: ( millions) Year ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Interest rates $ $ $ $ $ Currency rates $ $ $ $ $ Equity prices $ $ $ $ , $ The total VAR for the combined risk categories $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VAR % less June , and % less June, than the sum the separate risk categories for each those years the above table, due the diversification benefit the combination risks. The change the absolute value VAR primarily due asset allocation shifts and portfolio growth. PAGE Part Item ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June ( ) ( ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) ( ) , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , ( ) Income Statements for the years ended June , and have been restated reflect the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , discussed Note . See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June ( ) Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventories Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net Deferred income taxes , , Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Other long-term liabilities , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ , and $ , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , ( ) June , balance sheet has been restated reflect the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , discussed Note . See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June ( ) ( ) Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , Stock-based compensation , , , Net recognized (gains)/losses investments , ( , ) Stock option income tax benefits , , , Deferred income taxes ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( , ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities , , Other long-term liabilities Net cash from operations , , , Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock dividend \x96 ( ) ( , ) Net cash used for financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( ) ( ) ( , ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired \x96 ( , ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Net cash used for investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net change cash and equivalents ( ) , , Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents Cash and equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , ( ) June , and cash flow statements have been restated for retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , discussed Note . See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June ( ) ( ) Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Cumulative SFAS retroactive adjustments , \x96 \x96 Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock option income tax benefits/(deficiencies) , , ( ) Other, net \x96 Balance, end period , , , Retained earnings Balance, beginning period , , , Cumulative SFAS retroactive adjustments ( , ) \x96 \x96 Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investments gains/(losses) , ( ) Translation adjustments and other Comprehensive income , , , Common stock dividend \x96 ( ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , ( ) June , and stockholders\x92 equity statements have been restated for retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , discussed Note . See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. PRINCIPLES CONSOLIDATION The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries (Microsoft). Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which exercised significant influence but not control and are not the primary beneficiary are accounted for using the equity method. Investments which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee are accounted for under the cost method. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies and product life cycles, and assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited other comprehensive income (OCI). REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. enter into certain arrangements where are obligated deliver multiple products and services (multiple elements). these transactions, allocate the total revenue among the elements based the sales price each element when sold separately (vendor-specific objective evidence). Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped, with portion the revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements including, some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the vendor-specific objective evidence fair value for those elements using the residual method. Under the residual method, the total fair value the undelivered elements, indicated vendor-specific objective evidence, recorded unearned, and the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount recorded unearned for the undelivered elements recognized revenue related delivered elements. Unearned revenue due undelivered elements recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Revenue from multi-year licensing arrangements are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include rights receive future versions software product when-and- -available basis under Open and Select volume licensing programs (currently named Software Assurance and, previously named Upgrade Advantage). addition, other multi-year licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis under Open, Select, and Enterprise Agreement volume licensing programs. Premier support services agreements, MSN Internet Access subscriptions, Xbox Live, Microsoft bCentral subscriptions, and Microsoft Developer Network subscriptions are also accounted for subscriptions. PAGE Part Item Revenue related our Xbox game console recognized upon shipment the product retailers. Revenue related games published recognized when those games have been delivered retailers net allowances for returns and price concessions. Revenue related games published third parties for use the Xbox platform recognized when manufactured for the game publishers. Online advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for developer tools software, games, computer hardware, and Xbox, are accrued when the related revenue recognized. Provisions are recorded for estimated returns, concessions, and bad debts. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, equity compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, equity compensation, and other headcount-related costs well expenses related advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion fiscal , $ billion fiscal , and $ million fiscal . INCOME TAXES Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. DERIVATIVE AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments include both debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. lend certain fixed income and equity securities enhance investment income. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. The fair value collateral that are permitted sell repledge was $ million both June , and . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments quarterly basis. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, well our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. PAGE Part Item use derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, equities price, interest rate, and credit risks. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instrument designated fair-value hedge, the gain loss recognized earnings the period change together with the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the risk being hedged. For derivative instrument designated cash-flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component OCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss recognized earnings. For options designated either fair-value cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges for accounting purposes are recognized earnings. Foreign Currency Risk. Certain forecasted transactions and assets are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Options are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash-flow hedging instruments under Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Certain non- . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair-value hedging instruments under SFAS . Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies and manage other foreign currency exposures. Equities Price Risk. Equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, use and designate options hedge fair values and cash flows certain equity securities. determine the security, forecasted sale thereof, selected for hedging evaluating market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Once established, the hedges are not dynamically managed traded, and are generally not removed until maturity. Certain options, futures and swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , are also used manage equity exposures. Interest Rate Risk. Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. use exchange-traded option and future contracts and over-the-counter swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , hedge interest rate risk. Other Derivatives. Swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , are used manage exposures credit risks. addition, may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. Announced forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets are also considered derivatives cases where physical delivery the assets are not taken the earliest available delivery date. All derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments are recorded fair value, with changes value recognized the income statement during the period change. PAGE Part Item ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance beginning period Charged costs and expenses Write-offs and other Balance end period $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally three years less. GOODWILL Goodwill tested for impairment annual basis July , and between annual tests indicators potential impairment exist, using fair-value-based approach. impairment goodwill has been identified during any the periods presented. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one ten years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically and take into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. All our intangible assets are subject amortization. impairments intangible assets have been identified during any the periods presented. NOTE UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue comprised the following items: Volume licensing programs \x96 Represents customer billings, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Undelivered elements \x96 Represents free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount recorded unearned based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home, approximately % % the sales price for Windows Professional, and approximately % % the sales price for desktop PAGE Part Item applications, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and one-half years for Windows operating systems and two years for desktop applications. Other \x96 Represents primarily payments for online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed and payments for post-delivery support services performed the future. The components unearned revenue are follows: ( millions) June Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other Unearned revenue $ , $ , Unearned revenue segment follows: ( millions) June Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Information Worker , , Other segments Unearned revenue $ , $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE INVESTMENTS The components investments are follows: ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Fixed maturity securities Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Money market mutual funds , \x96 \x96 , , \x96 \x96 Commercial paper \x96 \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , , \x96 Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , , ( ) , , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , \x96 Fixed maturity securities , , ( ) , , , , Equity securities Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Equity securities , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Fixed maturity securities Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Money market mutual funds , \x96 \x96 , , \x96 \x96 Commercial paper , \x96 \x96 , , , \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , , \x96 Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , , \x96 Fixed maturity securities , ( ) , , , , Equity securities Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Equity securities , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item June , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities and $ million related international equity securities. Unrealized losses from fixed income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. the unrealized losses $ million June , ,$ million exceeded twelve months. Management does not believe any unrealized losses represent other-than temporary impairment based our evaluation available evidence June , . Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. June , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. The maturities debt securities June , were follows: ( millions) Cost basis Estimated fair value Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through ten years , , Due after ten years , , Total $ , $ , Debt securities include fixed maturity securities. NOTE INVESTMENT INCOME/(LOSS) The components investment income/(loss) are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments ( , ) , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) $ ( ) $ , $ , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments include other-than-temporary impairments $ billion fiscal , $ billion fiscal , and $ million fiscal . Realized gains and (losses) from sales available-for-sale securities (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) were $ billion and $( ) million fiscal , $ billion and $( ) million fiscal , and $ billion and $( ) million fiscal . NOTE DERIVATIVES For derivative instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS , did not have significant impact earnings for fiscal , , and . During fiscal , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million losses fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income/(loss). PAGE Part Item Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and derivative gains losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). estimate that $ million net derivative gains included OCI will reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. significant fair value hedges cash flow hedges were derecognized discontinued for fiscal , , and . NOTE INVENTORIES ( millions) Year Ended June Finished goods $ $ Raw materials and work process Inventories $ $ recorded lower cost market adjustments totaling approximately $ million fiscal . NOTE PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT ( millions) Year Ended June Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment Property and equipment, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Property and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed principally the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets. The useful lives for buildings range from five fifteen years, leasehold improvements range from the shorter five years applicable lease term, computer equipment and software range from two three years, and furniture and equipment range from one five years. Land not depreciated. During fiscal , , and , depreciation expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million, the majority which related computer equipment. PAGE Part Item NOTE GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill for fiscal and segment, are follows: ( millions) Balance June , Acquisitions / purchase accounting adjustments Balance June , Acquisitions / purchase accounting adjustments Divestitures Balance June , Client $ $ $ $ \x96 $ \x96 $ Server and Tools \x96 \x96 Information Worker \x96 ( ) \x96 Microsoft Business Solutions , , , ( ) , MSN ( ) \x96 \x96 Mobile and Embedded Devices \x96 Home and Entertainment ( ) \x96 Total $ , $ , $ , $ $ ( ) $ , test goodwill for impairment annually during the first quarter each fiscal year the reporting unit level using fair value approach, accordance with the provisions SFAS . Our annual testing resulted impairment charges goodwill fiscal and . event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value, goodwill will evaluated for impairment between annual tests. During fiscal , had material acquisitions. Goodwill decreased $ million primarily result goodwill allocated business that was divested the current year. The $ billion increase goodwill during fiscal related principally the following acquisitions: Navision with $ billion allocated Microsoft Business Solutions; $ million for the Rare Ltd. acquisition allocated Home and Entertainment; and Placeware, Inc. with $ million allocated Information Worker. NOTE INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components finite-lived intangible assets are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Contract-based $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Technology-based ( ) ( ) Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ $ ( ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ PAGE Part Item During fiscal , recorded additions intangible assets $ million, which $ million was related comprehensive intellectual property license that received conjunction with the settlement InterTrust . Microsoft . other material intangibles were acquired fiscal . During fiscal , recorded additions intangible assets $ million, primarily related the acquisition Navision and Rare Ltd., described Note \x96 Acquisitions. The components intangible assets acquired during fiscal and are follows \x96 significant residual value estimated for these assets: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount Weighted average life Amount Weighted average life Contract-based $ years $ years Technology-based years years Marketing-related years \x96 \x96 Customer-related years years Total $ years $ years During , research and development assets $ million were acquired and written off accordance with FASB Interpretation . (FIN ), Applicability FASB Statement . Business Combinations Accounted for the Purchase Method . Those write-offs are included Research and Development expenses. Acquired finite-lived intangibles are generally amortized straight line basis over weighted average periods. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal and $ million for fiscal . The estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets June , follows: ( millions) June Amount $ Total $ NOTE INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Current taxes: . and state $ , $ , $ , International , Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item . and international components income before income taxes are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Extraterritorial income exclusion tax benefit ( )% ( )% ( )% Permanent reinvestment foreign earnings ( )% ( )% ( )% Other reconciling items % \x96 % Total % % % The other reconciling items include the $ million benefit from the resolution the issue remanded the Circuit Court Appeals and the impact the non-deductible European Commission fine. Deferred income taxes were: ( millions) June Deferred income tax assets: Revenue items $ , $ , Expense items , , Impaired investments , , Stock-based compensation expense , , Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: Unrealized gain investments $ ( , ) $ ( , ) International earnings ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( , ) Deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income taxes $ , $ , Reported : Current deferred tax assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred tax assets , , Net deferred income taxes $ , $ , Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. have not provided for . deferred income taxes foreign withholding taxes $ billion our undistributed earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries, all which relate fiscal , , and earnings, because these earnings are intended permanently reinvested operations outside the United States. PAGE Part Item December , , the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals reversed, part, earlier . Tax Court decision. , the remaining issue remanded the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals was resolved closing all tax years with the IRS through . The IRS currently auditing through . Management believes any adjustments that may ultimately required will not material the financial statements. Income taxes paid were $ billion fiscal , $ billion fiscal , and $ billion fiscal . NOTE STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares common stock outstanding are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Beginning balance , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , discussed Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plans, million options were transferred JPMorgan Chase Bank (JPMorgan) under the stock option transfer program. The options transferred JPMorgan were amended and restated upon transfer contain terms and conditions typical equity option transactions entered into between sophisticated financial counterparties arm\x92 length using standard terms and definitions for equity derivatives. June , , the options have strike prices ranging from $ $ per share and have expiration dates between December and December . Our board directors has approved program repurchase shares our common stock reduce the dilutive effect our stock option and stock purchase plans. total million shares have been repurchased open market transactions over the last three fiscal years for approximately $ billion. repurchased million shares for $ billion, million shares for $ billion, and million shares for $ billion fiscal , , and , respectively. Additionally, , acquired million our shares result structured stock repurchase transaction entered into , which gave the right acquire such shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. any period, cash used financing activities related common stock repurchased may differ from the comparable change Stockholders\x92 Equity, reflecting timing differences between the recognition share repurchase transactions and their settlement for cash. January and September , , our board directors declared annual dividends our common stock $ and $ per share, respectively. The dividends were paid March and November , , respectively, shareholders record the close business February , and October , . PAGE Part Item NOTE OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The activity other comprehensive income and related tax effects are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Net gains/ (losses) derivative instruments: Unrealized gains/ (losses), net tax effect $ , $( ) and $ $ $ ( ) $ Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $ and $ ( ) Net gains/ (losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/ (losses): Unrealized holding gains/ (losses), net tax effect $( ) , $ and $( ) ( , ) , ( , ) Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $ , $ and $ , Net unrealized investment gains/ (losses) , ( ) Translation adjustments and other Other comprehensive income / (loss) $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) The components accumulated other comprehensive income were: ( millions) Year Ended June Net gains/ (losses) derivative instruments $ ( ) $ Net unrealized investment gains , Translation adjustments and other Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ , NOTE EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS Effective July , , adopted the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure . Under the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the value the award and recognized expense over the vesting period. connection with the use the retroactive restatement method, income statement amounts have been restated for fiscal and reflect results the fair-value method SFAS had been applied from its original effective date. Total compensation cost recognized income for stock-based employee compensation awards was $ billion fiscal , $ billion fiscal , and $ billion fiscal . The amounts for fiscal include $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) due the completion the employee stock option transfer program. Employee Stock Purchase Plan. have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares our common stock could purchased six month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six month period. Employees could purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During fiscal , , and employees purchased million shares, million shares, and million shares average prices $ , $ , and $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. PAGE Part Item During the fourth quarter fiscal , the administrative committee under the plan approved change the common stock purchase discount and approved the elimination the related look back period and change quarterly purchase periods. result, effective beginning fiscal , shares our common stock may purchased employees three months intervals % the fair market value the last day each three month period. Savings Plan. have savings plan the United States, that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, well number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal , , and . Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. Stock Plans . fiscal implemented changes employee compensation designed help continue attract and retain the best employees, and better align employee interests with those our shareholders. fiscal , began granting employees stock awards instead stock options. The stock award program offers employees the opportunity earn shares our stock over time, rather than options that give employees the right purchase stock set price. also completed employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal whereby employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested stock options with strike price $ higher (\x93eligible options\x94) JPMorgan. The unvested eligible options that were transferred JPMorgan became vested upon the transfer. The price paid JPMorgan for the transferred options was determined reference the arithmetic average the closing prices Microsoft common stock during the period from November , December , , which was $ . total , ( %) the , eligible employees elected participate the stock option transfer program and million ( %) the million eligible options were tendered. Under the terms the program, JPMorgan paid $ million for the transferred options. made initial payment $ million participating employees for the transferred options, with remaining portion paid one more payments that are subject participating employees\x92 continued employment over the next two three years. The options that were transferred JPMorgan resulted stock-based compensation expense $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) which reflected the results fiscal . This expense consists the unrecognized compensation costs the options that were transferred, less the amounts payable applicable those previously unvested options for which payment contingent upon continued employment participating employees. The contingent payments applicable unvested eligible options that are subject continued employment participating employees will recognized compensation expense over the vesting period the contingent payments. The stock option transfer program also resulted decrease our long-term deferred tax assets due the excess recorded compensation expense for these options over the related tax deduction reported our tax return. For fiscal , deferred tax assets were reduced approximately $ billion with offsetting reduction paid- capital, reflecting the reduction previously recorded deductions reported our tax return excess stock based compensation expense. description our stock plans follows. have stock plans for directors and for officers, employees, consultants and advisors. The plans provide for awards stock options and stock awards. June , , aggregate million shares were available for future grant under our stock plans. Our plans under which awards may issued not contain separate limitations the number stock awards; all million shares remaining available for grant June , could awarded stock awards. addition, awards that expire are cancelled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. The options transferred JPMorgan have been removed from our plans; any options transferred JPMorgan that expire without being exercised will not become available for grant under any our plans. Stock Awards and Shared Performance Stock Awards . Stock awards are grants that entitle the holder shares common stock the award vests. During fiscal , million stock awards with weighted-average fair value $ per share were granted and generally vest ratably over five-year period. Approximately , stock awards vested and million stock awards were cancelled during fiscal . PAGE Part Item Shared Performance Stock Awards are form stock award which the number shares ultimately received depends our performance against specified performance targets. The performance period July , through June , (January , through June , for certain executive officers). the end the performance period, the number shares stock and stock awards issued will determined adjusting upward downward from the target range between % and % ( % % for certain executive officers). The final performance percentage which the payout will based, considering performance metrics established for the performance period, will determined the board directors committee the board its sole discretion. Shares stock will issued the end the performance period and the stock awards vest ratably over the following two years. fiscal , Shared Performance Stock Awards representing the targeted number shares for the performance period ending June , were granted the aggregate amount million shares with weighted average fair value $ per share. Because these awards cover three-year period, Shared Performance Stock Awards will only awarded fiscal and newly hired and promoted employees eligible receive Shared Performance Stock Awards. shared performance stock awards vested and million shared performance stock awards were cancelled during fiscal . Stock Awards and Shared Performance Stock Awards are amortized over years using the straight line method. Stock Options. Nonqualified stock options have been granted our directors under our non-employee director stock plans. Nonqualified and incentive stock options have been granted our officers and employees under our employee stock plans. Options granted before generally vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted after vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. June , , stock options for million shares were vested. The weighted average Black-Scholes value options granted under the stock plans during fiscal , , and was $ , $ , and $ , respectively. The fair value each option grant estimated the date grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants: Year Ended June Weighted average expected life years Dividend per share $ \x96 $ $ Volatility % % % Risk-free interest rate % % % Employee stock options outstanding are follows: ( millions, except per share amounts) Price per Share Shares Range Weighted average Balance, June , , $ \x96 $ $ Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Stock Option Transfer Program ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , \x96 PAGE Part Item For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics outstanding employee stock options June , are follows: ( millions, except per share amounts and years) Outstanding options Exercisable options Range exercise prices Shares Remaining life (years) Weighted average price Shares Weighted average price $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ June , , million transferred options Morgan remained outstanding and are excluded from the amounts noted employee options outstanding the tables above. See Note . addition, the tables above include the total options outstanding million options outstanding that were granted conjunction with corporate acquisitions. These options are included the option totals; however, they are excluded from the exercise price ranges presented. These options had exercise price range $ $ and weighted average exercise price $ . NOTE EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components basic and diluted earnings per share are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect employee stock options and awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings per share: Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ For the years ended June , , and , million, billion and billion shares attributable outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices the stock options were greater than equal the average price the common shares, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. For the year ended June , , million shared performance stock awards, out million targeted amount granted, have been excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the number shares ultimately issued contingent our performance against metrics established for the performance period, discussed Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plans. PAGE Part Item NOTE ACQUISITIONS fiscal , had material acquisitions. fiscal , acquired all the outstanding equity interests Navision , Rare Ltd., and Placeware, Inc. Navision, headquartered Vedbaek, Denmark, provider integrated business solutions software for small and mid-sized businesses the European market that part the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. acquired Navision July , for $ billion consisting primarily $ million cash and the issuance million common shares our common stock valued $ million. The value the common shares issued was determined based the average market price our common shares over the two-day period before and after terms the acquisition were agreed and approved. Rare video game developer located outside Leicestershire, England, that has broaden the portfolio games available for the Xbox video game system. Rare was acquired September , for $ million consisting primarily $ million cash and included the Home and Entertainment segment. Placeware, located Mountain View, California, facilitates secure, highly reliable, cross-firewall Web conferencing experiences allowing users conduct business meetings online from , and part our Real Time Collaboration business unit the Information Worker segment. Placeware was acquired April , for $ million, consisting primarily $ million cash. Navision, Rare, and Placeware have been consolidated into our financial statements since their respective acquisition dates. None the acquisitions, individually the aggregate, are material our consolidated results operations. Accordingly, pro forma financial information not included this note. The estimated fair values the assets acquired and liabilities assumed the date the acquisitions for fiscal are follows: ( millions) Navision July , Rare Ltd. September , Placeware, Inc. April , Current assets $ $ $ Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets Goodwill , Total assets acquired , Current liabilities ( ) ( ) ( ) Long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 ( ) Total liabilities assumed ( ) ( ) ( ) Net assets acquired $ , $ $ The $ billion goodwill resulting from the Navision acquisition was assigned the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. that total amount, approximately $ million expected deductible for tax purposes. The $ million goodwill the Rare acquisition was assigned the Home and Entertainment segment. that total amount, approximately $ million expected deductible for tax purposes. The $ million goodwill the Placeware acquisition was assigned the Information Worker segment. None the goodwill expected deductible for tax purposes. The components intangible assets acquired the acquisitions above are follows ( significant residual value estimated for these assets): ( millions) Navision Weighted average life Rare Ltd. Weighted average life Placeware, Inc. Weighted average life Contract-based $ years $ years $ years Technology-based years years years Marketing-related years years year Customer-related \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 years Research and Development ( ) \x96 ( ) \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ years $ years $ years ( ) Amounts assigned research and development assets were written off accordance with FIN . Those write-offs were included Research and Development expenses. PAGE Part Item NOTE COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases, millions dollars, are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount $ and thereafter $ have committed $ million for constructing new buildings. have unconditionally guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company (Jupiter). These guarantees arose February , conjunction with the expiration prior financing arrangements, including previous guarantees . The financing arrangements were entered into Jupiter part financing its operations. part Jupiter\x92 new financing agreement, agreed guarantee repayment Jupiter the loans approximately $ million. The estimated fair value and the carrying value the guarantees was $ million which was added the carrying value the related investment. The guarantees are effect until the earlier repayment the loans, including accrued interest and fees, February , . The maximum amount the guarantees limited the sum the total due and unpaid principal amounts, accrued and unpaid interest, and any other related expenses. Additionally, the maximum amount the guarantees, denominated Japanese yen, will vary based fluctuations foreign exchange rates. were required make payments under the guarantees, may recover all portion those payments upon liquidation the Jupiter\x92 assets. The proceeds from such liquidation cannot accurately estimated due the multitude factors that would affect the valuation and realization the proceeds the event liquidation. connection with various operating leases, issued residual value guarantees, which provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. addition, also provide indemnification against credit risk several geographical locations our volume license resellers case the resellers fail collect from the end user. Due the nature the indemnification provided our resellers, can not estimate the fair value, nor determine the total nominal amount the indemnification. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Our product warranty accrual reflects management\x92 best estimate our probable liability under its product warranties (primarily relating the Xbox console). determine the warranty accrual based known product failures ( any), historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Our warranty accrual totals $ million. There has been significant activity impacting the results operations for any period presented. PAGE Part Item NOTE CONTINGENCIES Government antitrust cases. are the defendant . . Microsoft and New York . Microsoft , companion lawsuits filed the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice (DOJ) and group eighteen state Attorneys General alleging violations the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. After the trial, the District Court entered Findings Fact and Conclusions Law stating that had violated Sections and the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. Judgment was entered June , ordering, among other things, our breakup into two companies. June , , the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit affirmed part, reversed part, and vacated the Judgment its entirety and remanded the case the District Court for new trial one Section claim and for entry new judgment consistent with its ruling. its ruling, the Court Appeals substantially narrowed the bases liability found the District Court, but affirmed some the District Court\x92 conclusions that had violated Section . entered into settlement with the United States November , . Nine states (New York, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina and Wisconsin) agreed settle substantially the same terms November , . November , , the Court approved the settlement being the public interest, conditioned upon the parties\x92 agreement modification one provision related the Court\x92 ongoing jurisdiction. Two trade groups unsuccessfully sought intervene challenge the approval the settlement and have appealed. Nine states and the District Columbia continued litigate the remedies phase New York . Microsoft . November , , the Court entered Final Judgment this part the litigation that largely mirrored the settlement between , the DOJ and the settling states, with some modifications and different regime for enforcing compliance. The Court declined impose other and broader remedies sought the non-settling states. Two states, Massachusetts and West Virginia, appealed from this decision. West Virginia dismissed its appeal part settlement with several other cases. June , , the . Court Appeals for the . Circuit unanimously affirmed the settlement and the Final Judgment. European Commission competition law matter. March , the European Commission announced decision its competition law investigation Microsoft. The Commission concluded that infringed European competition law refusing provide our competitors with licenses certain protocol technology the Windows server operating systems and including streaming media playback functionality Windows desktop operating systems. The Commission ordered make the relevant licenses our technology available our competitors and develop and make available version the Windows desktop operating system that does not include specified software relating media playback. The decision also imposed fine \x80 million, which resulted charge \x80 million ($ million). filed appeal the decision the Court First Instance June , and will seek interim measures suspending the operation certain provisions the decision. contest the conclusion that European competition law was infringed and will defend our position vigorously. hearing our petition for interim measures will held September \x96 October , . other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state Attorneys General have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. Antitrust, unfair competition and overcharge class actions. large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits have been filed against various state and federal courts. The federal cases have been consolidated the . District Court for Maryland. These cases allege that have competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications, and they seek recover behalf variously defined classes direct and indirect purchasers\x92 alleged overcharges for these products. date, courts have dismissed all claims for damages brought against indirect purchasers under federal law and states. Nine those state court decisions have been affirmed appeal. Claims behalf foreign purchasers have also been dismissed the federal court Maryland. Appeals these state rulings are pending two states. Courts eleven states have ruled that these cases may proceed class actions, while courts two states have denied class certification. The Maryland federal District Court has certified class direct purchasers certain our operating system software that acquired the software from the shop Microsoft com web site pursuant direct marketing campaign and otherwise denied certification the proposed classes. The denial certification the proposed classes has been appealed and that appeal still pending. Members the certified class licensed fewer than , copies -issue operating system software from . September , reached agreement with plaintiffs\x92 counsel settle that action, which received final approval April . , reached agreement with counsel for the California plaintiffs settle all claims consolidated cases that state. Under the proposed settlement, class members will able obtain vouchers PAGE Part Item claims made basis that entitle the class members reimbursed the face value their vouchers for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total amount vouchers issued will depend the number class members who claim and are issued vouchers. Two-thirds the amount vouchers unissued unredeemed class members will made available certain schools California the form vouchers that also may redeemed for cash against purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware, software and related services. Since the beginning , also reached similar agreements settle all claims number other states. The proposed settlements these states are structured similarly the California settlement, except that, among other differences, one-half the amounts vouchers unissued class members will made available certain schools the relevant states. The maximum amount vouchers issued these settlements, including the California settlement, $ billion. The actual costs these settlements will less than that maximum amount, depending the number class members and schools who are issued and redeem vouchers. The settlements California, Florida, Kansas, Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Dakota, Tennessee and West Virginia have received final approval the relevant court. The proposed settlements Arizona, the District Columbia, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Mexico and Vermont have received preliminary approval the courts those states, but still require final approval. estimate the total cost resolve all these cases will range between $ billion and $ billion with the actual cost dependent upon many unknown factors such the quantity and mix products for which claims will made, the number eligible class members who ultimately use the vouchers, the nature hardware and software that acquired using the vouchers, and the cost administering the claims process. accordance with SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies , and FIN , Reasonable Estimation the Amount Loss , have recorded contingent liability $ billion, net administrative expenses and legal fees paid. RealNetworks litigation. December , , RealNetworks, Inc. filed suit against alleging violations federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws, related streaming media features Windows and related technologies. RealNetworks seeks damages and injunctive relief, including permanent injunction requiring offer version Windows products with streaming media features. deny the allegations and will vigorously defend the action. RealNetworks filed the case federal court San Jose, California. has been consolidated for pretrial purposes with other cases pending the . District Court Baltimore. Patent cases. are the defendant more than patent infringement cases that are defending vigorously. the case Eolas Technologies, Inc. and University California . Microsoft , filed the . District Court for the Northern District Illinois February , , the plaintiffs accused the browser functionality Windows infringement. August , , the jury awarded the plaintiffs approximately $ million damages for infringement from the date the plaintiffs\x92 patent issued through September . The plaintiffs are seeking equitable accounting for damages from September the present. January , , the trial court entered final judgment $ million, including post-trial interest $ million, and entered injunction against distribution any new products, but stayed execution the judgment and the injunction pending our appeal. filed our notice appeal February , . October , , the . Patent Office issued letter stating that has initiated Director-ordered -examination the Eolas patent. February , , pursuant this -examination proceeding, the Patent Office issued Office Action rejecting the claims the Eolas patent. believe the total cost resolve this case will not material our financial position results operations. The actual costs are dependent upon many unknown factors such success appeal and the events retrial the case should the case remanded trial following appeal. Research Corporation Technologies, Inc. . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the District Arizona, plaintiff has asserted family six patents relating halftoning which believes are infringed certain printing and display functionality allegedly present different versions Windows and Office. Plaintiff seeks yet unspecified amount damages the form \x93reasonable royalties\x94 various Microsoft products dating far back Windows and Office . The case scheduled for trial April . TVI . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the Northern District California, plaintiff accuses the Autoplay feature Windows infringement. This case scheduled for trial September . Arendi USA, Inc. and Arendi Holding Limited . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the District Rhode Island, plaintiff has accused certain Smart Tags features Microsoft Office and Office infringing one patent. Trial scheduled for September, . Adverse outcomes some all the pending cases may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against adversely affecting distribution our operating system application products. The risks associated with adverse decision may result material settlements. PAGE Part Item Sun Microsystems agreements. April , , entered into series agreements with Sun Microsystems, Inc. resolve all pending litigation between the parties, attempt avoid future disputes, and create environment conducive future cooperation. These agreements included Settlement Agreement, Patent Covenant and Standstill Agreement, and Technology Collaboration Agreement. Pursuant the agreements, made payments totaling $ billion Sun. the Settlement Agreement, Sun agreed discontinue its participation proceedings pending against Microsoft instituted the Commission the European Communities and agreed dismiss with prejudice the action filed the Northern District California, Sun Microsystems, Inc. . Microsoft Corp. , Civil Action . - - RMW (PVT) ( . Cal.), and later transferred the United States District Court for the District Maryland under MDL Docket . . Sun released Microsoft from any claims that were could have been asserted the proceedings pending before the European Communities, its action pending the ., and any claims based any actions events discussed the Findings Fact United States . Microsoft Corp. and New York, . Microsoft Corp. , . Supp. ( . ). Pursuant the terms the Settlement Agreement, Microsoft paid Sun $ million, which was recorded litigation related expense. The Patent Covenant and Standstill Agreement provides that neither Sun nor Microsoft will sue the other, certain authorized channel and end user licensees, for damages for past patent infringement. Microsoft has the option extending this covenant not sue each year until exchange for annual extension payment, long certain conditions are met. The agreement provides that April , , provided that certain conditions are met, the companies will grant each other irrevocable, non-exclusive, perpetual patent licenses, with some reciprocal limitations scope and use, well additional ten year covenant not sue for patent infringement with respect certain products. Pursuant the terms this Agreement, Microsoft paid Sun $ million, which was recorded litigation related expense. Sun and Microsoft also entered into reciprocal Technology Collaboration Agreement. This collaboration agreement provides both companies with access aspects each other\x92 server-based technology for use developing new server software products and enhancing existing server software products, order improve interoperability. provides perpetual license between Microsoft and Sun pursuant all subject intellectual property rights (including patents and trade secrets) enable either company implement its server operating system products any server-based communications protocols that are implemented over seven year period the other company order interoperate with their respectively identified server and client operating system products. Royalty obligations incurred Microsoft for use inclusion covered Sun technology Microsoft products will, incurred, credited against the $ million already paid pursuant the terms the Technology Collaboration Agreement, based royalty rates determined the future Sun. This license removes concerns under traditional patent and trade secret intellectual property frameworks enabling Microsoft\x92 current and future client and server operating system products interoperate with the most popular Sun products wide range customer computing environments. The extent and timing Microsoft\x92 consumption this credit subject uncertainty. Much the technology that the companies agreed license each other does not exist useable form and the agreement does not specify individual royalty payments for implementation specifications for particular communications protocols. After reaching this agreement with Sun, valued the intellectual property rights received. determining the fair value the intellectual property received, considered the uncertainty associated with the timing and likely use Sun\x92 technology, which included estimating the likelihood adoption protocols and potential royalties saved. That valuation resulted fair value $ million for the right use Sun\x92 licensed protocols certain products, which recorded intellectual property asset. Reflecting the uncertainty associated with the timing and likely use Sun\x92 technology, the remaining amount $ million was recorded litigation related expense. Intertrust settlement. April , , the previously reported case InterTrust . Microsoft was settled agreement the parties. Under the terms this agreement, have taken comprehensive license InterTrust\x92 patent portfolio, including pending patent applications, and agreed make one-time payment InterTrust $ million. The agreement involved combination license intellectual property assets for which recorded intangible asset $ million and payment $ million for settlement legal claims. the total payment, $ million was recovered through insurance and had impact our results operations. The agreement resolves all outstanding litigation between the parties. Other. are also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. While management currently believes that resolving all these matters, individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position our results operations, the litigation and other claims noted above are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may PAGE Part Item change the future. Were unfavorable final outcome occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect becomes reasonably estimable. NOTE SEGMENT INFORMATION Segment revenue and operating income/(loss) follows: ( ) ( millions) Year Ended June Revenue Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Information Worker , , , Microsoft Business Solutions MSN , , , Mobile and Embedded Devices Home and Entertainment , , , Reconciling amounts ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Operating Income/(Loss) Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Information Worker , , , Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) ( ) ( ) MSN ( ) ( ) Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) ( ) ( ) Home and Entertainment ( ) ( ) ( ) Reconciling amounts ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , ( ) Fiscal and information has been restated reflect the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , discussed Note . addition, fiscal information has been restated for certain internal reorganizations and changes certain internal accounting methods conform the current period presentation. was not practicable restate fiscal information for these changes, nor was practicable present the current year basis consistent with fiscal . SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. This standard requires segmentation based our internal organization and reporting revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. Our financial reporting systems present various data for management run the business, including internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. The segments are designed allocate resources internally and provide framework determine management responsibility. Operating segments are defined components enterprise about which separate financial information available that evaluated regularly the chief operating decision maker, decision making group, deciding how allocate resources and assessing performance. Our chief operating decision maker our Chief Executive Officer. The types products and services provided each segment are summarized below: Client \x96 Windows Professional and Home, Windows Professional, and other standard Windows operating systems. PAGE Part Item Server and Tools \x96 Server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and other servers. Also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier product support services, and Microsoft consulting services. Information Worker \x96 Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint Portal Server CALs, other information worker products including Microsoft LiveMeeting and OneNote, allocation for Server CALs, and professional product support services. Microsoft Business Solutions \x96 Microsoft Great Plains, Microsoft Navision, Microsoft Axapta, Microsoft Solomon, Microsoft CRM, MBN Retail Manager and other business applications and services. MSN \x96 Personal communication services, such -mail and instant messaging, information services, such MSN Search and the MSN portals and channels, and paid services including MSN Internet access, MSN Premium Web services, and MSN Mobile service. Mobile and Embedded Devices \x96 Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded device operating systems, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. Home and Entertainment \x96 Xbox video game system, games, the Home Products Division (HPD), and platform products. Because our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments, and therefore these segments are not designed measure operating income loss directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and incent shared efforts. Management will continually evaluate the alignment product development organizations, sales organizations, and inter-segment commissions for segment reporting purposes, which may result changes segment allocations future periods. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Reconciling amounts include adjustments conform with . GAAP and corporate level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, quarter end cut off timing, and accelerated amortization for depreciation, stock awards and performance-based stock awards. addition, certain revenue and expenses are excluded from segments included corporate level activity including certain legal settlements and legal contingent liabilities. Significant reconciling items are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Operating income reconciling amounts: Legal settlements and contingent liabilities ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Revenue reconciling amounts ( ) Other ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Total $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Other primarily includes corporate operations related sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, , corporate development and procurement activities; research and development; and various amounts conform with . GAAP. PAGE Part Item Sales Dell and its subsidiaries the aggregate accounted for approximately % total fiscal revenue. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels and were included all operating segments. single customer accounted for more than % revenue . Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which operate, follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes shipments customers the United States, licensing certain OEMs and multinational organizations, and exports finished goods, primarily Asia, Latin America, and Canada. Long-lived assets, classified the geographic location the controlling statutory company which that company operates, are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States $ , $ , Other countries , Total $ , $ , NOTE SUBSEQUENT EVENT July , , our board directors approved quarterly dividend $ per share payable September , , shareholders record August , . addition, the board approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over the next four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. The board also approved one-time special dividend $ per share, approximately $ billion, subject shareholder approval stock plan amendments that will allow certain adjustments employee equity compensation awards offset the impact the special dividend. The special dividend will payable December , , shareholders record November , , conditioned upon shareholder approval amendments the employee stock plans the annual meeting shareholders scheduled held November , . PAGE Part Item QUARTERLY INFORMATION ( millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Total Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ ` , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , ( ) , ( ) , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Includes charges $ million (pre-tax) related the Time Warner settlement and $ billion impairments investments. ( ) Includes stock-based compensation charges $ billion for the employee stock option transfer program. ( ) Includes charges $ billion (pre-tax) related the Sun Microsystems Inc. settlement and fine imposed the European Commission. PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Corporation\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. described Note the financial statements, the Company retroactively adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , effective July , . / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Deloitte & Touche LLP Seattle, Washington August , PAGE Part Item , , ITEM . CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. ITEM . CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. ITEM . OTHER INFORMATION None. PAGE Part III Item , , , , , PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information about our Directors may found under the caption \x93Election Directors and Management Information\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Controller and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website www microsoft com msft. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature such amendment waiver that website report Form - . ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation\x94 and \x93Information About the Board and its Committees\x97Director Compensation\x94 incorporated herein reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 and \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 incorporated herein reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth under the captions \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ITEM . PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the heading \x93Fees Billed Deloitte & Touche LLP\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PART ITEM . EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Annual Report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. PAGE Part Item ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) . Call Option Transaction Confirmation dated December , between Microsoft Corporation and JPMorgan Chase Bank ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Gain and Bonus Deferral Program * Form Stock Award Agreement * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement for the January , June , performance period * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement for the July , June , performance period * Form Stock Option Agreement * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Subsidiaries Registrant . Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act . Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement. PAGE SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . ICROSOFT ORPORATION : / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title / / ILLIAM . ATES III William . Gates III Chairman and Chief Software Architect / / TEVEN . ALLMER Steven . Ballmer Director and Chief Executive Officer / / AMES . ASH , . James . Cash, . Director / / AYMOND . ILMARTIN Raymond . Gilmartin Director / / AUGHLIN OROLOGOS Ann McLaughlin Korologos Director / / AVID . ARQUARDT David . Marquardt Director / / HARLES . OSKI Charles . Noski Director / / ELMUT ANKE Helmut Panke Director / / . . EED , . . . Reed, . Director / / . HIRLEY Jon . Shirley Director / / OHN . ONNORS John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) PAGE EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) . Call Option Transaction Confirmation dated December , between Microsoft Corporation and JPMorgan Chase Bank ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Gain and Bonus Deferral Program * Form Stock Award Agreement * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement for the January , June , performance period * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement for the July , June , performance period * Form Stock Option Agreement * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Subsidiaries Registrant . Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act . Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington: million square feet that total corporate campus space situated slightly more than acres owned land and approximately million square feet leased. are currently renovating two buildings with approximately , square feet that plan occupy fiscal . accommodate future expansion needs purchased approximately acres, and have option purchase approximately additional acres Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet additional office space. own approximately , square feet office building space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. PAGE Part Item , , occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately million square feet that leased and approximately , square feet that owned. These facilities include our European Operations Center that leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and , square-foot facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; Reading, England , square feet; and Mississauga, Canada , square feet. addition the above, have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described \x93Operations\x94 above. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding legal proceedings. ', 'item 4. ': 'SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers August , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates III Chairman the Board; Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer James . Allchin Group Vice President, Platforms Group Robert . (Robbie) Bach Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment Douglas . Burgum Senior Vice President, Microsoft Business Solutions David . Cole Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group John . Connors Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois Senior Vice President; CEO, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Kenneth . DiPietro Corporate Vice President, Human Resources Kevin . Johnson Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services Michelle (Mich) Mathews Corporate Vice President, Marketing Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Information Worker Business Eric . Rudder Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary David Vaskevitch Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Business Platforms . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman since our incorporation. . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms Group December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity, and Vice President, Desktop Applications Marketing since . . Bach joined Microsoft . PAGE Part Item . Burgum joined the Company Senior Vice President upon Microsoft\x92 acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. April . Prior the acquisition, had served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Great Plains. joined Great Plains . . Cole was named Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group November . Before holding that position, had been Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division since August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December and Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . Previously, was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Connors was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer December . had been Vice President, Worldwide Enterprise Group since March . . Connors had been Vice President, Information Technology Group, and Chief Information Officer since July . joined Microsoft . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa March . had been Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Worldwide Customer Marketing since July . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . DiPietro joined Microsoft January Corporate Vice President, Human Resources. Prior joining Microsoft, was Vice President Human Resources for the Americas Dell Computer Corporation. Before joining Dell, was Senior Vice President Human Resources Pepsi-Cola International. . Johnson was named Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services March . had been Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas since February . . Johnson had been Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August , and before that Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. joined Microsoft . . Mathews was named Corporate Vice President, Marketing August . Before holding her current position, . Mathews had been Vice President Corporate Public Relations since . . Mathews joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Information Worker Business June . had been Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services since August . . Raikes had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Rudder was named Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business June . Prior assuming that role, was responsible for managing Developer and Platform Evangelism. . Rudder joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary November . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . . Vaskevitch was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Business Platforms August . had been Senior Vice President, Business Applications since March . . Vaskevitch had been Senior Vice President, Developer since December . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Distributed Applications Platform. joined Microsoft . PAGE Part Item PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low September , our board directors declared common stock dividend $ per share, which was paid November . That was the only dividend declared paid fiscal . Our dividend policy based , among other considerations, our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. July , , our board directors approved quarterly dividend $ per share payable September , , shareholders record August , . addition, the board approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over the next four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. The board also approved one-time special dividend $ per share, approximately $ billion, subject shareholder approval stock plan amendments that will allow certain adjustments employee equity compensation awards offset the impact the special dividend. The special dividend will payable December , , shareholders record November , , conditioned upon shareholder approval amendments the employee stock plans the annual meeting shareholders scheduled held November , . did not repurchase any our shares the fourth quarter fiscal . PAGE Part Item ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended June ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share before accounting change $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends per share $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ $ Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , ( ) The financial data presented for fiscal and has been restated prescribed SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure and amendment FASB Statement . , reflect the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation discussed Note . The information presented for and has not been restated. fiscal had been restated, the operating income and net income would have been $ , million and $ , million. fiscal had been restated, the operating income and net income would have been $ , million and $ , million. ( ) Fiscal includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . . Fiscal also includes the acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. for approximately $ billion stock. ( ) Fiscal includes $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. ( ) Fiscal includes the acquisition Navision , Rare Ltd. and Placeware, Inc. for total $ billion cash and $ million stock and other consideration. PAGE Part Item ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR , , AND Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis ( & ) contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because factors discussed \x93Issues and Uncertainties\x94 and elsewhere this report. OVERVIEW The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis (\x93 & \x94) intended help the reader understand Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes (\x93Notes\x94). generate revenues, income and cash flows developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products for many computing devices. Our software products include operating systems for servers, personal computers (PCs), and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; and software development tools. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify system integrators and developers. sell the Xbox video game console and games, games and peripherals. Online communication services and information services are delivered through our MSN portals and channels around the world. also research and develop advanced technologies for future software products. Delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our integrated platform are the key meeting customer needs and our future growth. believe that over the last few years have laid foundation for long-term growth, delivering innovative new products, creating opportunity for partners, improving customer satisfaction with key audiences, putting some our most significant legal challenges behind , and solidifying internal processes. Our focus fiscal building this foundation and executing well key areas, including continuing innovate our integrated software platform, delivering compelling value propositions customers, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and continuing focus internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability across the company. Key market opportunities include: \x95 Meeting the needs growing worldwide base users, which project will top billion ; \x95 Delivering new scenarios such collaboration, authoring, communicating, planning, and analysis for information workers; \x95 Continuing compete against Linux and Unix for commercial workloads; \x95 Reducing complexity and cost for professionals and developers; \x95 Delivering services for smaller business, and consumers; \x95 Creating and delivering business solutions for small and mid-market segments; \x95 Creating non- consumer electronics areas such mobile phones, handheld devices, home entertainment and ; \x95 Delivering compelling entertainment experiences areas such music, , movies, photos, and games; \x95 Expanding online advertising, and advances search, music and other information services; \x95 Delivering integrated communications services for consumers and information workers. For fiscal , believe industry-wide factors such unit growth and the success non-commercial software could significantly affect our results operations and financial condition. unit growth was very strong fiscal , increasing approximately % from fiscal . not expect similar growth occur fiscal . PAGE Part Item believe that unit shipments will grow % %, resulting forecasted fiscal Client revenue growth rate that believe will between % and %. continue watch the evolution open source software development and distribution, and continue differentiate our products from competitive products including those based open source software. believe that Microsoft\x92 share server units grew modestly fiscal , while Linux distributions rose slightly faster absolute basis. The increase Linux distributions reflects some significant public announcements support and adoption open source software both the server and desktop markets the last year. the extent open source software products gain increasing market acceptance, sales our products may decline, which could result reduction our revenue and operating margins. Additionally, due primarily our announced special dividend and quarterly dividend payments, continued, expect investment balances and resulting investment income decrease significantly fiscal . have approximately $ billion original Upgrade Advantage contract value that will reach their expiration dates the first quarter fiscal . This revenue was recognized over the last two years and the first quarter fiscal the contract period expires. Summary ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , ( )% Our revenue growth for fiscal was driven licensing Windows Client operating systems through OEMs; Windows Server operating systems, Office, and other server applications result growth and server hardware shipments; and the continuing impact from multi-year licensing that occurred prior the transition our Licensing program the first quarter fiscal . estimate growth shipments was % during fiscal , reflecting global economic improvement, which led strength the consumer segment the first half fiscal and replacement and notebook sales the enterprise segment the second half fiscal . estimate that total server hardware shipments grew %, with Windows Server shipments growing faster than the overall sector % fiscal . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive fiscal , primarily due relative strengthening most foreign currencies versus the . dollar. Had the rates from the prior year been effect fiscal , translated international revenue earned local currencies would have been approximately $ billion lower. hedge portion our international currency exposures, thereby reducing our overall translation exposure. Prior the July , Licensing transition date, experienced significant increase multi-year licensing arrangements customers enrolled our maintenance programs, primarily Upgrade Advantage. Revenue growth fiscal was driven primarily multi-year licensing that occurred before the Licensing transition date the first quarter fiscal . The revenue growth also reflected $ million % increase associated with OEM licensing Microsoft Windows operating systems and $ million % increase revenue from Microsoft Xbox video game consoles. Revenue growth fiscal was led the addition $ billion Xbox video game system revenue and $ billion revenue growth from Microsoft Windows Professional and Home operating systems. For fiscal , the operating income decline $ million was primarily caused the $ billion charges related the Sun Microsystems settlement and fine imposed the European Commission the third quarter fiscal and $ billion stock-based compensation expense related our employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal . Operating income was positively influenced the revenue growth described above and operational improvements our MSN business. fiscal , the growth operating income reflected increase $ billion revenue, partially offset increase $ billion operating expenses, primarily related employee and related costs associated with additional headcount and increased legal settlement expenses, primarily the Time Warner settlement charge $ million. fiscal , the growth operating income reflected increase $ billion revenue, substantially offset increase $ billion operating expenses, which included the onset costs related Xbox video game systems. adopted the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , July , and restated prior periods reflect compensation cost under the recognition provisions SFAS for PAGE Part Item all awards granted employees after July , . Stock-based compensation expenses are included operating expenses part headcount-related costs. Total stock-based compensation costs included operating expenses were $ billion fiscal , $ billion fiscal , and $ billion fiscal . fiscal , not expect revenue grow similarly high rates fiscal , even information technology spending continues improve. While expect general economic conditions remain stable with the improvements seen the second half fiscal , expect and server unit shipment growth rates decline fiscal from the high growth rates fiscal . estimate shipments will grow from % % and Server unit shipments will grow from % % fiscal compared fiscal . These lower growth rates may cause slower revenue growth fiscal . are anticipating little year-over-year foreign exchange rate benefit fiscal . anticipate that will renew between % and % the expiring Upgrade Advantage program revenue through conversions Software Assurance migration Enterprise Agreements. Total revenue expected recognized our Information Worker, Server and Tools, and Client businesses from previously deferred Upgrade Advantage revenue $ million. MSN had strong year fiscal with revenue growth % driven over % growth advertising revenue. fiscal , expect MSN see growth advertising revenue and subscription and transaction revenue from premium Web services, partially offset reduction access revenue narrowband subscribers continue decline. Accordingly, not expect the same level revenue growth for MSN fiscal . Home and Entertainment revenue grew moderately fiscal . not expect significant growth Home and Entertainment fiscal price reductions the second half fiscal related the late stage the Xbox lifecycle are expected lead lower revenue for the Xbox business. expect our operating income growth fiscal exceed our revenue growth. Operating income expected reflect lower operating expenses due the absence certain legal settlements which occurred fiscal , lower stock-based compensation costs, and benefits achieved through continued progress our previously announced cost efficacy initiative. expect that our segments fiscal that reported segment operating loss \x96 Mobile and Embedded Devices, Microsoft Business Solutions, and Home and Entertainment \x96 will make significant progress toward segment profitability fiscal with improved operations. SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) Our seven segments are: Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. The revenue and operating income/(loss) amounts & are presented basis consistent with . GAAP applied the segment level. Certain corporate level expenses have been excluded. Those expenses primarily include corporate operations related sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, , corporate development and procurement activities, research and development and other costs, and accrued legal contingencies. Corporate expenses were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion fiscal , and respectively. Segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements presented accordance with SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . The tables that follow below for each segment present our segment revenue and operating income, determined basis consistent with . GAAP: Client ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , PAGE Part Item Client includes revenue from Windows Professional and Home, Windows Professional, and other standard Windows operating systems. The growth the Client segment\x92 revenue largely correlated with the growth purchases PCs from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems. Client revenue increase was driven % growth OEM licenses and % growth OEM revenue increased consumer unit shipments the first half the fiscal year and growth business unit shipments the second half fiscal . Revenue from commercial and retail licensing declined % due lower revenue earned from Upgrade Advantage licensing agreements and lower packaged product sales. fiscal , Client revenue growth was driven OEM licensing revenue growth $ million and percentage point increase the mix the higher priced Windows Professional operating systems, the majority which was the OEM channel. Windows Professional revenue growth for fiscal was $ billion, %, compared fiscal . The Windows Professional growth fiscal was partially offset $ million decline revenue from earlier versions Windows operating systems. Client operating income was flat for fiscal compared fiscal due increased operating expenses primarily related the charge for the Sun Microsystems settlement $ million the third quarter fiscal and $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal , offset growth revenue. Operating income for fiscal increased primarily result the % growth revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses, largely attributed headcount additions and related costs. estimate that market growth will from % % fiscal . expect emerging markets continue outpace mature market growth rates and expect hold our share these respective markets. The differential market growth rate expected result lower unit license growth the OEM business and lower revenue growth, piracy continues problematic emerging markets, and significant price changes are not anticipated. plan continue our efforts increase premium product mix but expect see only modest improvements fiscal . The Client commercial and retail licensing revenues are expected continue lag behind overall Client revenue growth. expect operating profits percentage Client revenue improve fiscal , due the legal settlements expenses and stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program fiscal . Major investments fiscal include development the Windows Client next generation operating system (Longhorn), security programs, and marketing initiatives, including those related Windows Service Pack and other new products. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ $ , % $ ( )% Server and Tools consists server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and other servers. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier product support services, and Microsoft consulting services. Growth the overall market for information technology, both hardware and software, the principal driver for Server and Tools revenue growth. The segment concentrates licensing products, applications, tools, content, and services that make information technology professionals and developers more productive and efficient. Products are sold through OEMs, distributors, direct customers, and through one-time licenses multi-year volume license agreements. estimate that overall server hardware shipments grew % fiscal compared the prior year. Server and Server applications revenue, including CAL revenue, grew $ billion % driven primarily estimated % increase Windows-based server shipments resulting % growth new Windows Server licenses, and favorable conversion revenue billed foreign currencies . dollars. Consulting and Premier product support services revenue increased $ million % compared fiscal due increased customer penetration from new product offerings. Revenue from developer tools, training, certification, and Microsoft Press and other services declined $ million % compared fiscal due recognition revenue deferred prior years. Foreign exchange rates contributed approximately $ million % Server and Tools revenue growth. PAGE Part Item Total Server and Tools revenue grew $ million % fiscal , driven increase Windows-based server shipments and growth SQL Server and Exchange revenue. Windows Server and CALs revenue grew $ million % from fiscal result increased new and anniversary multi-year licensing agreements. Consulting and Premier product support services increased $ million % compared fiscal . Revenue from developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, and other services increased $ million % from fiscal . Server and Tools operating income for fiscal declined primarily due the charge for the Sun Microsystems settlement $ billion the third quarter fiscal and $ million stock-based compensation costs from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal . Server and Tools operating income for fiscal grew %, primarily result the % increase revenue. anticipate that overall server hardware shipments will grow from % % fiscal and new licenses Windows Server operating system will grow slightly faster than the overall market. believe that Windows Server shipments will create opportunities for sales Windows Server System products. However, face strong competition from the Linux-based, Unix, and other server operating systems. addition, Server and Tools net revenue for fiscal will unfavorably affected the absence revenue earned from our Upgrade Advantage program and anticipated foreign exchange benefit. Information Worker ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , % Information Worker consists the Microsoft Office System programs, servers, services, and solutions designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. Information Worker includes Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint Portal Server CALs, other information worker products including Microsoft LiveMeeting and OneNote, and professional product support services. Most revenue from this segment comes from licensing our Office System products. Revenue growth depends the ability add value the core Office product set and expand our product offerings other Information Worker areas such document lifecycle and collaboration. Revenue growth for fiscal from volume licensing, retail packaged product and pre-installed versions Office Japan was % aggregate. This increase was driven recognition unearned revenue primarily from large increase multi-year licenses signed prior the transition our Licensing programs and approximately $ million related the launch Office . OEM licensing revenue grew % $ million. Foreign exchange rates provided approximately $ million % total Information Worker revenue growth. The $ billion % increase revenue fiscal compared fiscal was primarily due growth Office suites revenue associated with new and anniversary multi-year licensing agreements and $ million % increase revenue from the combined total Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, and other stand-alone applications. Information Worker operating income fiscal increased from the prior year primarily due growth revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses, primarily related $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal and higher sales and marketing expenses. Information Worker operating profit for fiscal grew % compared fiscal , led the % increase revenue and partially offset % growth operating expenses related headcount additions and marketing expenses. Fiscal Information Worker revenue expected similar fiscal . are expecting reduction revenue earned from our Upgrade Advantage licensing agreements and anticipated foreign exchange rate benefit. The significant reduction Upgrade Advantage earned revenue expected offset sustained momentum our OEM and multi-year licensing offerings and increased purchasing Office System enterprises complete their product evaluations. PAGE Part Item Microsoft Business Solutions ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ $ % $ % Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) % $ ( ) ( )% Microsoft Business Solutions includes Microsoft Great Plains, Microsoft Navision, Microsoft Axapta, Microsoft Solomon, Microsoft CRM, MBN Retail Manager and other business applications and services. Our revenue generally derived from developing and marketing integrated, end- -end business applications and services designed help small and mid-market businesses. The small and mid-market business applications market highly fragmented and intensely competitive all sectors. Microsoft Business Solutions revenues are affected the general economic environment and enterprise information technology spending particular. The revenue increase fiscal was primarily attributable continued growth licensing Navision and Axapta ERP products, and new sales Microsoft CRM. Microsoft Business Solutions revenue for fiscal grew $ million from fiscal , which $ million was attributable the acquisition Navision the beginning the fiscal year. The operating loss for fiscal declined from fiscal due the increase revenue and lower operating expenses including $ million lower amortization costs, partially offset $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal . Microsoft Business Solutions operating loss for fiscal increased from fiscal primarily due operating losses associated with Navision, increases sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, and acquisition-related costs. announced the fourth quarter fiscal plan align and include the Small and Mid-Market Solutions & Partners (SMS& ) organization the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. This change designed optimize our focus delivering business applications small and mid-market segment businesses. The SMS& organization currently part the Information Worker segment. This reorganization will result corresponding change the Microsoft Business Solutions and Information Worker reported results, primarily from the reorganization approximately $ million revenue and costs associated with our Partner program offerings, which will move from Information Worker segment Microsoft Business Solutions. fiscal , expect continued growth for Microsoft Business Solutions through CRM, Axapta, Navision, and Great Plains product lines with increased sales and marketing focus from the SMS& organization, and new product launches for Great Plains and Navision. MSN ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income/(loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) ( )% $ The MSN segment includes personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, and information services, such MSN Search and the MSN portals and channels around the World. MSN also provides variety paid services resulting revenue for the segment including MSN Internet Access, and MSN Premium Web Services. Revenue principally generated from advertisers MSN, from consumers through subscriptions and transactions generated from MSN Premium Web Services and from subscribers MSN Narrowband Internet Access. fiscal , MSN advertising revenue increased $ million % result growth paid search and growth the overall Internet advertising market. This increase was partially offset decline $ million % Internet access revenue, primarily from the migration internet access subscribers broadband other competitively priced Internet service providers. Revenue from subscription and transaction services other than Internet access increased $ million fiscal $ million. the end the current fiscal year, MSN had million internet access subscribers compared million the end the prior fiscal year and million total subscribers compared million the end the prior year. addition, MSN has over million unique users PAGE Part Item monthly, million active Hotmail accounts, and million active Messenger accounts. Compared fiscal , MSN advertising revenue grew $ million % fiscal result growth paid search and strong online advertising sales across all geographic regions. MSN subscription revenue grew $ million % fiscal reflecting increase the number paying non-promotion subscribers. MSN reached segment profitability the first quarter fiscal and was profitable for the full fiscal year. The improvement profitability was primarily driven increase revenue from advertising both display and paid search, decline customer acquisition costs and other expenses related the Internet access business, efficiency gains the operations the advertising and subscription businesses, and $ million refund prior year taxes, partially offset $ million stock-based compensation expense related the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal . MSN operating loss for fiscal decreased from fiscal , primarily result the growth revenue and lower relative subscription acquisition and support costs. MSN expects advertising revenue and revenue from subscriptions and transactions for premium Web services increase fiscal . Advertising revenue should benefit from expected increases Internet spending and additions the advertising platform including music download service, communication innovations, and improved search engine. expect revenue from narrowband Internet access decline fiscal narrowband subscribers continue migrate broadband Internet access. announced the fourth quarter fiscal increase the amount storage will provide for select MSN and Hotmail email accounts which will increase operating costs and may impact the revenues from our extra storage customers. However, expect the segment increase its profitability fiscal , led continued operational efficiencies and lower unit margin costs both the subscriber and advertising businesses. Mobile and Embedded Devices ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ $ % $ % Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) % $ ( ) ( )% Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded device operating systems, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. The segment\x92 products extend the advantages the Windows platform mobile phones and Pocket PCs. The segment also responsible for managing sales and customer relations with device manufacturers and with network service providers, including telecommunications, cable and wireless companies, and host and network equipment providers. The embedded operating system market highly fragmented with many competitive offerings and relatively short product life cycles that affect our continuing revenue streams. Unit volume increases drove revenue growth for fiscal over fiscal all product lines. The growth was primarily due the increase the number OEMs and mobile operators shipping Windows Mobile software for SmartPhones, increases market share for our Pocket and embedded products and increased usage existing customers our MapPoint Web Service. Revenue for fiscal grew $ million driven increased Pocket shipments and MapPoint licensing. Mobile and Embedded Devices\x92 operating loss for fiscal decreased compared fiscal primarily due growth revenue and lower marketing expenses, partially offset $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal . Operating loss for fiscal grew % from the prior year higher marketing expenses and headcount-related costs associated with product development offset the growth revenue. expect demand for mobile and embedded devices based Windows Mobile software driven overall increase customer demand for connectivity well increase the number OEMs and mobile operators offering Windows-based devices. PAGE Part Item Home and Entertainment ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) % $ ( , ) % Home and Entertainment includes the Microsoft Xbox video game console system, games, the Home Products Division (HPD), and platform products for the interactive television industry. The relative success competing video game consoles determined console functionality, the portfolio video game content for the console, and the relative market share the console. are relatively new entrant the video game console businesses with our first release fiscal , and have established ourselves one the leaders. Revenue and unit volumes have grown quickly since , but revenue growth moderated fiscal due price reductions typical this stage the console lifecycle. believe our competitive position and revenue bolstered our increasing software game attach rates, providing higher margins offset the decreasing price trend consoles sold. fiscal , Xbox revenue increased $ million % with $ million related higher Xbox software volumes and $ million due higher Xbox console volumes, partially offset $ million decline related price reductions Xbox consoles and software. Overall, Xbox console volumes increased % fiscal compared fiscal . The Xbox life- -date . games attach rate increased games per console according industry analyst NPD June , . Revenue from consumer hardware and software, games and platforms declined $ million % compared fiscal due lower games software and gaming devices sales, partially offset the new release Mac Office. The increase Home and Entertainment revenue fiscal from fiscal was the result sales Xbox video game systems and related games which were available for all fiscal . Xbox revenue grew $ million % fiscal reflecting $ million increase from higher volumes for Xbox consoles, games, and peripherals partially offset $ million decrease due price changes. Revenue from consumer hardware and software and games declined $ million % fiscal , driving the decrease Home Products revenue. The increase operating loss fiscal was primarily due $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal , increased sales negative margin consoles, and costs associated with the next generation console development efforts, partially offset increased Xbox and Mac Office software sales. The operating loss increase from fiscal also included lower cost market adjustment approximately $ million, reflecting the current stage the lifecycle the Xbox console. Operating loss increased $ million % from the prior year the product costs associated with the increased Xbox console sales and increased marketing expense more than offset the % increase revenue. fiscal , expect Xbox console unit volumes and revenue decrease from fiscal consistent with this stage the Xbox console lifecycle, partially offset increased unit volumes driven the launch software titles such Halo2. fiscal expect games revenue decrease from fiscal driven fewer new game titles. Other HPD revenue are expected increase moderately result the launch the latest version Mac Office late the fourth quarter fiscal . fiscal , expect operating margins improve from fiscal driven lower unit volumes negative margin consoles and increased sales high margin software. expect development spending higher fiscal driven investment the next generation Xbox platform design. Cost revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Cost revenue $ , $ , % $ , % percent revenue % % ( ) % ( ) PAGE Part Item Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products and programs sold, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. The increase fiscal was primarily due increased product support and consulting services costs $ million, $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program, and lower cost market adjustment the fourth quarter fiscal approximately $ million, reflecting the current stage the life cycle the Xbox console, partially offset $ million decrease MSN services costs. fiscal , the primary driver the increase was percentage point increase from Home and Entertainment products and percentage point decrease from MSN product and service costs fiscal compared fiscal . Research and development ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Research and development $ , $ , % $ , % percent revenue % % ( ) % Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, equity compensation and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. The increase fiscal was primarily due $ billion stock-based compensation expenses related the option transfer program the second quarter fiscal well other headcount-related payroll and other employee costs related % growth research and development headcount from fiscal . fiscal , the increase reflects increase headcount-related costs, % increase third-party product development costs, and % increase testing laboratory equipment and expense. Sales and marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Sales and marketing $ , $ , % $ , % percent revenue % % % ( ) Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, equity compensation and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other marketing-related programs. Sales and marketing costs increased fiscal due $ million stock-based compensation expenses related the option transfer program the second quarter fiscal and other headcount-related costs related % growth sales and marketing headcount. fiscal , the sales and marketing expense increase $ billion dollars was due increase sales expenses related headcount additions, principally related the Enterprise and Small Medium Business sales forces, and % increase marketing expenses. General and administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percentage inc./ (dec.) Percentage inc./ (dec.) General and administrative $ , $ , % $ , % percent revenue % % % PAGE Part Item General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, equity compensation and other headcount-related costs associated with the finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources, and other administrative headcount, and legal costs and other administrative fees. General and administrative costs increased fiscal primarily due legal expenses including $ billion charges related the Sun Microsystems settlement, $ million fine imposed the European Commission the third quarter fiscal , $ million stock-based compensation expense related the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal , other legal costs approximately $ million, and other headcount related costs. General and administrative costs fiscal increased $ million from fiscal due charge $ million related settlement with Time Warner the fourth quarter and $ million charge reflecting increase our estimate costs related resolving pending antitrust and unfair competition consumer class action lawsuits. Investment Income/(Loss), and Income Taxes Investment Income/(Loss) The components investment income/(loss) each fiscal year are follows: ( millions) / Year Ended June Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net recognized gains (losses) investments ( , ) , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income /(loss) $ ( ) $ , $ , Dividends and interest income decreased $ million fiscal mainly due lower dividend income resulting from the exchange & % convertible preferred debt for common shares Comcast during fiscal and declining interest rates, partly offset larger investment portfolio. Net recognized gains (losses) investments include other-than-temporary impairments $ million fiscal compared $ billion the prior year well higher net realized gains sales fiscal moved more liquid investment asset classes. Net realized gains sales were $ billion fiscal and $ billion fiscal . The decline impairments was due improved market conditions. Derivative losses decreased $ million $ million fiscal compared fiscal primarily due the combined effects interest rate movements interest rate sensitive instruments and equity market price movements relative positions used hedge the fair value certain equity securities. fiscal , dividends and interest income decreased $ million driven primarily reduction dividend income $ million resulting from the exchange & % convertible preferred debt for common shares Comcast during the second quarter fiscal , and declining interest rates partially offset larger investment portfolio. Net recognized gains (losses) investments includes other-than-temporary impairments $ billion fiscal compared $ billion fiscal and net realized gains investments $ billion fiscal compared $ billion fiscal . The decrease other-than-temporary impairments was also due the reduced cost-basis investments resulting from significant impairments investments the cable and telecommunications sectors. fiscal , other-than-temporary impairments $ billion primarily related our investment & and other cable and telecommunication investments. Net realized gains the sales investments $ billion included $ billion gain sale our interest Expedia. Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other than temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other than temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. PAGE Part Item Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for fiscal was %. benefit $ million was recorded during the fourth quarter from the reversal previously accrued taxes from resolving the remaining open issue remanded the 9th Circuit Court Appeals ruling December . The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter fiscal was approximately %. During the third quarter the tax rate increased due the European Commission fine, which not tax deductible. The effective tax rate for fiscal and fiscal was % each year. The fiscal rate reflected benefit the second quarter $ million from the reversal previously accrued taxes related the initial items from the 9th Circuit Court Appeals ruling referred above, that reversed, part, previous Tax Court ruling that had denied tax benefits certain revenue earned from the distribution software foreign customers. Excluding this reversal, the effective tax rate would have been %. Stock-based Compensation. implemented changes fiscal employee compensation designed help continue attract and retain the best employees, and better align employee interests with those our shareholders. Generally, employees are now granted stock awards instead stock options. The stock award program offers employees the opportunity earn shares our stock over time, rather than options that give employees the right purchase stock set price. also completed employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal whereby employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested stock options with strike price $ higher (\x93eligible options\x94) JPMorgan Chase Bank (JPMorgan). The unvested eligible options that were transferred JPMorgan became vested upon the transfer. The price paid JPMorgan for the transferred options was determined reference the arithmetic average the closing prices Microsoft common stock during the period from November , December , , which was $ . Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plan the Notes the Financial Statements provides additional information employee stock and savings plans. addition, effective July , , adopted the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure . Under the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the value the award and recognized expense over the vesting period. The June , balance sheet has been restated for the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , which resulted $ billion increase common stock and paid- capital, $ billion decrease retained earnings, and $ billion increase deferred income taxes. Given these changes the following table provides stock-based compensation expense for fiscal through segment. ( millions, except expense per share) ( ) Client $ $ $ Server and Tools , , , Information Worker Microsoft Business Solutions MSN Mobile and Embedded Devices Home and Entertainment Corporate , Stock-based employee compensation expense $ , $ , $ , After-tax stock-based employee compensation expense $ , $ , $ , After-tax stock-based employee compensation expense per diluted share $ $ $ ( ) The amounts for fiscal include $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) due the completion the employee stock option transfer program. PAGE Part Item FINANCIAL CONDITION Our cash and short-term investment portfolio totaled $ billion June , . Equity and other investments were $ billion June , . The portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions, order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, that are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. For certain other licensing arrangements revenue attributable undelivered elements, including free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home, approximately % % the sales price for Windows Professional, and approximately % % the sales price for desktop applications, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three-and-one-half years for Windows operating systems and two years for desktop applications. Unearned revenue also includes payments for online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed and payments for post-delivery support services performed the future. Unearned revenue June , decreased $ million from June , , reflecting recognition unearned revenue from multi-year licensing that has outpaced additions $ million, primarily due recognition from Upgrade Advantage licensing agreements and $ million decline revenue deferred for undelivered elements. Starting April , revenue deferred for undelivered elements reflected lower deferral rates, partially offset lengthened product life cycles for the underlying products licensed, resulting higher proportion revenue earned. earned approximately $ billion and $ billion from the Upgrade Advantage programs for fiscal and , respectively and expect earn approximately $ million fiscal from those programs. Cash Flows Cash flow from operations for fiscal decreased $ billion $ billion. The decrease primarily reflects the combined cash outflows $ billion related the Sun Microsystems settlement and the European Commission fine mentioned above partially offset increased cash receipts from customers driven the rise revenue billings. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from the prior year. The decrease reflects that did not repurchase any common stock the fourth quarter fiscal combined with $ million increase primarily from stock issuances related employee stock options exercises, partially offset $ million increase cash dividends paid. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from fiscal , due $ billion decrease net investment purchases and $ billion decrease acquisition spending. Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . The increase primarily reflects the rise cash receipts from customers driven the increase revenue billings and maintenance relatively stable accounts receivable levels. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ million from the prior year. The increase reflects cash dividend payment $ million and increase $ million common stock repurchase, offsetting $ million received for common stock issued. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from fiscal , due stronger portfolio performance sold and matured investments. Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . The increase reflected strong growth unearned revenue result the significant number customers that purchased Upgrade Advantage during the Licensing transition period. This resulted increase billings and corresponding increase the unearned revenue amount. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal , decrease $ billion from the prior year. The decrease reflected the repurchase put warrants the prior year. PAGE Part Item repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal . addition, million shares common stock were acquired fiscal under structured stock repurchase transaction. entered into the structured stock repurchase transaction fiscal , which gave the right acquire million our shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal , increase $ billion from fiscal . have material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment under which incurred rental expense totaling $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal , , and , respectively. have issued residual value guarantees connection with various operating leases. These guarantees provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. July , , our board directors approved quarterly dividend $ per share payable September , , shareholders record August , . addition, the board approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft Common stock over the next four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. The board also approved one-time special dividend $ per share, approximately $ billion, subject shareholder approval stock plan amendments that will allow certain adjustments employee equity compensation awards offset the impact the special dividend. The special dividend will payable December , , shareholders record November , , conditioned upon shareholder approval amendments the employee stock plans the annual meeting shareholders scheduled held November , . believe existing cash and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements and our special dividend well regular quarterly dividends. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and short-term investments, well equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. continuously assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations Off-balance sheet arrangements have unconditionally guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company (Jupiter). These guarantees arose February , conjunction with the expiration prior financing arrangements, including previous guarantees . The financing arrangements were entered into Jupiter part financing its operations. part Jupiter\x92 new financing agreement, agreed guarantee repayment Jupiter the loans approximately $ million. The estimated fair value and the carrying value the guarantees was $ million and did not result charge operations. The guarantees are effect until the earlier either repayment the loans, including accrued interest and fees, February , . The maximum amount the guarantees limited the sum the total due and unpaid principal amounts, accrued and unpaid interest, and any other related expenses. Additionally, the maximum amount the guarantees, denominated Japanese yen, will vary based fluctuations foreign exchange rates. were required make payments under the guarantees, might recover all portion those payments upon liquidation Jupiter\x92 assets. The proceeds from asset liquidation cannot accurately estimated due the many factors that would affect the valuation and realization the proceeds. PAGE Part Item provide indemnifications varying scope and amount certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies, interpreted FIN . consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Contractual obligations The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) ( ) Payments due period - - and thereafter Total Long-term debt $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 Construction commitments ( ) \x96 \x96 Lease obligations: Capital leases \x96 Operating leases ( ) Purchase commitments ( ) , \x96 , Other long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 Total contractual obligations $ , $ $ $ $ , ( ) have excluded the recorded $ billion contingent liability related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits referred the third paragraph Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements the timing and amount resolved cash versus vouchers subject uncertainty. ( ) have certain commitments for the construction buildings. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Our future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases comprise the majority the operating lease obligations presented above. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Purchase commitments represent obligations under agreements which are not unilaterally cancelable , are legally enforceable and specify fixed minimum amounts quantities goods services fixed minimum prices. generally require purchase orders for vendor and third-party spending. The amount presented above purchase commitments includes analysis all known contracts exceeding $ million the aggregate well all known open purchase orders. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) have excluded unearned revenue $ billion from other long-term liabilities presented above these will not settled cash. have also excluded the liability recorded for the Jupiter guarantee $ million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS December , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation 46R (FIN 46R), revision Interpretation (FIN ), Consolidation Variable Interest Entities. FIN 46R clarifies some the provisions FIN and exempts certain entities from its requirements. FIN 46R effective the end the first interim period ending after March , . Entities that have adopted FIN prior this effective date can continue apply the provisions FIN until the effective date FIN 46R elect early adoption FIN 46R. The adoption FIN and FIN 46R did not have material impact our financial statements. March , the FASB ratified the recognition and measurement guidance and certain disclosure requirements for impaired securities described Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue . - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application Certain Investments. The recognition and measurement guidance will PAGE Part Item applied other-than-temporary impairment evaluations reporting periods beginning with our first fiscal quarter . not believe the adoption the recognition and measurement guidance EITF Issue . - will have material impact our financial statements. July , the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) consensus Issue . - , Whether Investor Should Apply the Equity Method Accounting Investments Other Than Common Stock , which provides guidance regarding application the equity method accounting investments other than common stock. EITF Issue . - will effective beginning with our second quarter fiscal . not believe the adoption EITF Issue . - will have material impact our financial statements. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, and accounting for income taxes. account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Software Revenue Recognition. The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) fair value exists for those elements. Customers receive certain elements our products over period time. These elements include free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, the fair value which recognized over the product\x92 estimated life cycle. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities, provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, evaluate, among other factors, the duration and extent which the fair value investment less than its cost; the financial health and near-term business outlook for the investee, including factors such industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow; and our intent and ability hold the investment. Investments with indicator are further evaluated determine the likelihood significant adverse affect the fair value and amount the impairment necessary. the past, have had substantial impairments our portfolio discussed Note \x96 Investment Income/(Loss). market, industry and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. SFAS , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (July for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This requires significant judgments including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. account for research and development costs accordance with several accounting pronouncements, including SFAS , Accounting for Research and Development Costs, and SFAS , Accounting for the Costs Computer PAGE Part Item Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed. SFAS specifies that costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product should charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies, requires that estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial position our results operations. SFAS , Accounting for Income Taxes, establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position our results operations. ISSUES AND UNCERTAINTIES This Annual Report Form - contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based current expectations and assumptions that are subject risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because issues and uncertainties such those listed below and elsewhere this report, which, among others, should considered evaluating our future financial performance. Challenges our Business Model. Since our inception, our business model has been based upon customers agreeing pay fee license software developed and distributed . Under this commercial software model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution their products. believe the commercial software model has had substantial benefits for users software, allowing them rely our expertise and the expertise other software developers that have powerful incentives develop innovative software that useful, reliable, and compatible with other software and hardware. recent years, there has been growing challenge the commercial software model. Under the non-commercial software model, open source software produced loosely associated groups unpaid programmers and made available for license end users without charge distributed firms nominal cost that earn revenue complementary services and products, without having bear the full costs research and development for the open source software. The most notable example open source software the Linux operating system. While believe our products provide customers with significant advantages security and productivity, and generally have lower total cost ownership than open source software, the popularization the non-commercial software model continues pose significant challenge our business model, including recent efforts proponents open source software convince governments worldwide mandate the use open source software their purchase and deployment software products. the extent opens source software gains increasing market acceptance, sales our products may decline, may have reduce the prices charge for our products, and revenue and operating margins may consequently decline. Intellectual Property Rights . defend our intellectual property rights, but unlicensed copying and use software and intellectual property rights represents loss revenue . While this adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the United States more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits PAGE Part Item licensing genuine products and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may not affect revenue positively, and revenue could adversely affected further deterioration compliance with existing legal protections reductions the legal protection for intellectual property rights software developers. From time time receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow. Responding these claims may require enter into royalty and licensing agreements unfavorable terms, require stop selling redesign affected products, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. are required enter into such agreements take such actions, our operating margins may decline result. have made and expect continue making significant expenditures acquire the use technology and intellectual property rights, including via cross-licenses broad patent portfolios. Unauthorized Disclosure Source Code . Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and software programs, the most significant asset own. While license certain portions our source code for various software programs and operating systems number licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. unauthorized disclosure significant portion our source code occurs, could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss future trade secret protection could make easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code could also increase certain risks described below under \x93Security\x94. New Products and Services. have made significant investments research, development and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including Longhorn, Microsoft NET, Xbox, business applications, MSN, and mobile and wireless technologies. Significant revenue from new product and service investments may not achieved for number years, all. Moreover, these products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for these businesses may not high the margins have experienced historically. Litigation. discussed Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements, are subject variety claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes some all the pending cases may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against . are also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. While management currently believes that resolving all these matters, individually the aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position results operations, the litigation and other claims noted above are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. There exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Security. Maintaining the security computers and computer networks issue critical importance for and our customers. There are malicious hackers who develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. While this industry-wide phenomenon that affects computers across all platforms, our customers particular have been victims such attacks and will likely continue . are devoting significant resources addressing these critical issues. are focusing our efforts engineering more secure products, optimizing security and reliability options and settings when deliver products, and providing guidance help our customers make the best use our products and services protect against computer viruses and other attacks their computing environment. addition, are working improve the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities discovered after our products are released. are also investing mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed. are also advising customers how help protect themselves from security threats through the use our online automated security tools, our published security guidance, and the deployment security software such firewalls, antivirus, and other security software. These steps could adversely affect our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products could lead some customers seek return products, reduce delay future purchases, purchase competitive products. Customers may also increase their expenditures protecting their computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption new technologies. Any these actions customers could adversely affect our revenue. PAGE Part Item Declines Demand for Software. overall market demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines significantly, consumer corporate spending for such products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. Additionally, our revenue would unfavorably impacted customers reduce their purchases new software products upgrades existing products because new product offerings are not perceived adding significant new functionality other value prospective purchasers. significant number customers purchased license agreements providing upgrade rights specific licensed products prior the transition Licensing July . These agreements generally expired throughout fiscal and will largely expired the end the first fiscal quarter . The rate which such customers renew these contracts could adversely affect future revenue. are making significant investments the next release the Windows operating system, code-named Longhorn. this system not perceived offering significant new functionality value prospective purchasers, our revenue and operating margins could adversely affected. Product Development Schedule. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new product releases significant problems creating new products, particularly any delays the Longhorn operating system, could adversely affect our revenue. General Economic and Geo-Political Risks. Softness corporate information technology spending other changes general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenue. Terrorist activity and armed conflict pose the additional risk general economic disruption and could require changes our operations and security arrangements, thus increasing our operating costs. These conditions lend additional uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Competition. continue experience intensive competition across all markets for our products and services. These competitive pressures may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives, resulting lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. Taxation Extraterritorial Income. August , World Trade Organization (\x93WTO\x94) dispute panel determined that the tax provisions the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act (\x93ETI\x94) constitute export subsidy prohibited the WTO Agreement Subsidies and Countervailing Measures. The . government appealed the panel\x92 decision and lost its appeal. March , , the European Union began imposing retaliatory tariffs specified list .-source goods. May, the . Senate passed the Jumpstart our Business Strength (JOBS) Act that would repeal ETI, provide three-year phase-out current ETI benefits, and would replace ETI with phased- % domestic production activity deduction that would not fully effective until . The . House Representatives passed similar legislation June that would repeal ETI effective December , , provide two-year phase-out ETI benefits, and replace ETI with % tax rate reduction for income from domestic production activities that would full phased . Neither bill will fully replace our current ETI tax benefits. Both bills must still reconciled conference, and significant changes could made the final legislation, remain unable assess the ultimate form and financial impact this legislation, enacted. the ETI provisions are repealed and financially comparable replacement tax legislation not enacted, the loss the ETI tax benefit could significant. Other Potential Tax Liabilities. are subject income taxes both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. are regularly under audit tax authorities. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different than that which reflected historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes assessed result audit litigation, material effect our income tax provision and net income the period periods for which that determination made could result. Insurance Programs. addition conventional third-party insurance arrangements, have entered into captive insurance arrangements for the purpose protecting against possible catastrophic and other risks not covered traditional insurance markets. June , , the face value captive insurance arrangements was $ PAGE Part Item , billion. Actual value any particular time will vary due deductibles, exclusions, other restrictions, and claims. While believe these arrangements are effective way insure against such risks, the potential liabilities associated with certain the issues and uncertainties discussed this document other events could exceed the coverage provided such arrangements. Business Disruptions the Event Catastrophic Event. are highly automated business and disruption failure our systems the event major earthquake, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales and providing services. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could severely affect our ability conduct normal business operations and, result, our future operating results could adversely affected. Other . Other issues and uncertainties may include: \x95 warranty and other claims for hardware products such Xbox; \x95 sales channel disruption, such the bankruptcy major distributor; \x95 the effects the Consent Decree . . Microsoft and Final Judgment State New York . Microsoft the Windows operating system and server business, including those associated with protocol and other disclosures required the Decree and Final Judgment and the ability manufacturers hide end-user access certain new Windows features; \x95 currency fluctuations; \x95 our ability implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth; \x95 the continued availability third-party distribution channels for MSN service and other online services; \x95 factors associated with our international operations, described under Operations Part , Item this report; and \x95 financial market volatility other changes affecting the value our investments, such the Comcast Corporation securities held that may result reduction carrying value and recognition losses including impairment charges. ', 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK are exposed foreign currency, interest rate, and fixed income and equity price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results operations and financial position. hedge portion anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed income securities are subject interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and structured minimize credit risk. Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject price risk, and are generally not hedged. However, use options hedge our price risk certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. use value- -risk (VAR) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VAR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. The model used for currencies and equities geometric Brownian motion, which allows incorporation optionality with regard these risk exposures. For interest rate risk, the mean reverting geometric Brownian motion used reflect the principle that fixed-income securities prices revert maturity value over time. Value- -risk calculated , first, simulating , market price paths over days for equities, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, taking into account historical correlations among the different rates and prices. Each PAGE Part Item resulting unique set equities prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates then applied substantially all individual holdings -price each holding. The worst performance (out , ) represents the value- -risk over days the percentile confidence level. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. Certain securities our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. hedge the value portion these securities through the use derivative contracts such put-call collars. these arrangements, hedge security\x92 equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most all the benefits the security\x92 appreciation above the sold call strike, exchange for premium received for the sold call. also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. have incurred material impairment charges related these securities prior periods. The VAR amounts disclosed below are used risk management tool and reflect estimate potential reductions fair value our portfolio. Losses fair value over -day holding period can exceed the reported VAR significant amounts and can also accumulate over longer time horizon than the -day holding period used the VAR analysis. VAR amounts are not necessarily reflective potential accounting losses, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with . GAAP. The VAR numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency, and equity risks. These VAR numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. use historical data estimate VAR. Given the reliance historical data, VAR most effective estimating risk exposures markets which there are fundamental changes shifts market conditions. inherent limitation VAR that the distribution past changes market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions future market risk. The following table sets forth the VAR calculations for substantially all our positions: ( millions) Year ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Interest rates $ $ $ $ $ Currency rates $ $ $ $ $ Equity prices $ $ $ $ , $ The total VAR for the combined risk categories $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VAR % less June , and % less June, than the sum the separate risk categories for each those years the above table, due the diversification benefit the combination risks. The change the absolute value VAR primarily due asset allocation shifts and portfolio growth. PAGE Part Item ', 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June ( ) ( ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Losses equity investees and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) ( ) , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , ( ) Income Statements for the years ended June , and have been restated reflect the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , discussed Note . See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June ( ) Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventories Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net Deferred income taxes , , Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Other long-term liabilities , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ , and $ , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , ( ) June , balance sheet has been restated reflect the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , discussed Note . See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June ( ) ( ) Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , Stock-based compensation , , , Net recognized (gains)/losses investments , ( , ) Stock option income tax benefits , , , Deferred income taxes ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( , ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities , , Other long-term liabilities Net cash from operations , , , Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock dividend \x96 ( ) ( , ) Net cash used for financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( ) ( ) ( , ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired \x96 ( , ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Net cash used for investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net change cash and equivalents ( ) , , Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents Cash and equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , ( ) June , and cash flow statements have been restated for retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , discussed Note . See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June ( ) ( ) Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Cumulative SFAS retroactive adjustments , \x96 \x96 Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock option income tax benefits/(deficiencies) , , ( ) Other, net \x96 Balance, end period , , , Retained earnings Balance, beginning period , , , Cumulative SFAS retroactive adjustments ( , ) \x96 \x96 Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investments gains/(losses) , ( ) Translation adjustments and other Comprehensive income , , , Common stock dividend \x96 ( ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , ( ) June , and stockholders\x92 equity statements have been restated for retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , discussed Note . See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. PRINCIPLES CONSOLIDATION The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries (Microsoft). Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which exercised significant influence but not control and are not the primary beneficiary are accounted for using the equity method. Investments which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee are accounted for under the cost method. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies and product life cycles, and assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited other comprehensive income (OCI). REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. enter into certain arrangements where are obligated deliver multiple products and services (multiple elements). these transactions, allocate the total revenue among the elements based the sales price each element when sold separately (vendor-specific objective evidence). Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped, with portion the revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements including, some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the vendor-specific objective evidence fair value for those elements using the residual method. Under the residual method, the total fair value the undelivered elements, indicated vendor-specific objective evidence, recorded unearned, and the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount recorded unearned for the undelivered elements recognized revenue related delivered elements. Unearned revenue due undelivered elements recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Revenue from multi-year licensing arrangements are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include rights receive future versions software product when-and- -available basis under Open and Select volume licensing programs (currently named Software Assurance and, previously named Upgrade Advantage). addition, other multi-year licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis under Open, Select, and Enterprise Agreement volume licensing programs. Premier support services agreements, MSN Internet Access subscriptions, Xbox Live, Microsoft bCentral subscriptions, and Microsoft Developer Network subscriptions are also accounted for subscriptions. PAGE Part Item Revenue related our Xbox game console recognized upon shipment the product retailers. Revenue related games published recognized when those games have been delivered retailers net allowances for returns and price concessions. Revenue related games published third parties for use the Xbox platform recognized when manufactured for the game publishers. Online advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for developer tools software, games, computer hardware, and Xbox, are accrued when the related revenue recognized. Provisions are recorded for estimated returns, concessions, and bad debts. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, equity compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, equity compensation, and other headcount-related costs well expenses related advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion fiscal , $ billion fiscal , and $ million fiscal . INCOME TAXES Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. DERIVATIVE AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments include both debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. lend certain fixed income and equity securities enhance investment income. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. The fair value collateral that are permitted sell repledge was $ million both June , and . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments quarterly basis. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, well our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. PAGE Part Item use derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, equities price, interest rate, and credit risks. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instrument designated fair-value hedge, the gain loss recognized earnings the period change together with the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the risk being hedged. For derivative instrument designated cash-flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component OCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss recognized earnings. For options designated either fair-value cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges for accounting purposes are recognized earnings. Foreign Currency Risk. Certain forecasted transactions and assets are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Options are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash-flow hedging instruments under Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Principal currencies hedged include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Certain non- . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair-value hedging instruments under SFAS . Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies and manage other foreign currency exposures. Equities Price Risk. Equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, use and designate options hedge fair values and cash flows certain equity securities. determine the security, forecasted sale thereof, selected for hedging evaluating market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Once established, the hedges are not dynamically managed traded, and are generally not removed until maturity. Certain options, futures and swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , are also used manage equity exposures. Interest Rate Risk. Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. use exchange-traded option and future contracts and over-the-counter swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , hedge interest rate risk. Other Derivatives. Swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS , are used manage exposures credit risks. addition, may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. Announced forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets are also considered derivatives cases where physical delivery the assets are not taken the earliest available delivery date. All derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments are recorded fair value, with changes value recognized the income statement during the period change. PAGE Part Item ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance beginning period Charged costs and expenses Write-offs and other Balance end period $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally three years less. GOODWILL Goodwill tested for impairment annual basis July , and between annual tests indicators potential impairment exist, using fair-value-based approach. impairment goodwill has been identified during any the periods presented. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one ten years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically and take into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. All our intangible assets are subject amortization. impairments intangible assets have been identified during any the periods presented. NOTE UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue comprised the following items: Volume licensing programs \x96 Represents customer billings, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Undelivered elements \x96 Represents free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount recorded unearned based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home, approximately % % the sales price for Windows Professional, and approximately % % the sales price for desktop PAGE Part Item applications, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and one-half years for Windows operating systems and two years for desktop applications. Other \x96 Represents primarily payments for online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed and payments for post-delivery support services performed the future. The components unearned revenue are follows: ( millions) June Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other Unearned revenue $ , $ , Unearned revenue segment follows: ( millions) June Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Information Worker , , Other segments Unearned revenue $ , $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE INVESTMENTS The components investments are follows: ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Fixed maturity securities Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Money market mutual funds , \x96 \x96 , , \x96 \x96 Commercial paper \x96 \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , , \x96 Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , , ( ) , , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , \x96 Fixed maturity securities , , ( ) , , , , Equity securities Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Equity securities , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Fixed maturity securities Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Money market mutual funds , \x96 \x96 , , \x96 \x96 Commercial paper , \x96 \x96 , , , \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , , \x96 Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , , \x96 Fixed maturity securities , ( ) , , , , Equity securities Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Equity securities , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item June , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities and $ million related international equity securities. Unrealized losses from fixed income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. the unrealized losses $ million June , ,$ million exceeded twelve months. Management does not believe any unrealized losses represent other-than temporary impairment based our evaluation available evidence June , . Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. June , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. The maturities debt securities June , were follows: ( millions) Cost basis Estimated fair value Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through ten years , , Due after ten years , , Total $ , $ , Debt securities include fixed maturity securities. NOTE INVESTMENT INCOME/(LOSS) The components investment income/(loss) are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments ( , ) , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Investment income/(loss) $ ( ) $ , $ , Net recognized gains/(losses) investments include other-than-temporary impairments $ billion fiscal , $ billion fiscal , and $ million fiscal . Realized gains and (losses) from sales available-for-sale securities (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) were $ billion and $( ) million fiscal , $ billion and $( ) million fiscal , and $ billion and $( ) million fiscal . NOTE DERIVATIVES For derivative instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS , did not have significant impact earnings for fiscal , , and . During fiscal , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million losses fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income/(loss). PAGE Part Item Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income/(loss). During fiscal , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and derivative gains losses were reclassified investment income/(loss). estimate that $ million net derivative gains included OCI will reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. significant fair value hedges cash flow hedges were derecognized discontinued for fiscal , , and . NOTE INVENTORIES ( millions) Year Ended June Finished goods $ $ Raw materials and work process Inventories $ $ recorded lower cost market adjustments totaling approximately $ million fiscal . NOTE PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT ( millions) Year Ended June Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment Property and equipment, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Property and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed principally the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets. The useful lives for buildings range from five fifteen years, leasehold improvements range from the shorter five years applicable lease term, computer equipment and software range from two three years, and furniture and equipment range from one five years. Land not depreciated. During fiscal , , and , depreciation expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million, the majority which related computer equipment. PAGE Part Item NOTE GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill for fiscal and segment, are follows: ( millions) Balance June , Acquisitions / purchase accounting adjustments Balance June , Acquisitions / purchase accounting adjustments Divestitures Balance June , Client $ $ $ $ \x96 $ \x96 $ Server and Tools \x96 \x96 Information Worker \x96 ( ) \x96 Microsoft Business Solutions , , , ( ) , MSN ( ) \x96 \x96 Mobile and Embedded Devices \x96 Home and Entertainment ( ) \x96 Total $ , $ , $ , $ $ ( ) $ , test goodwill for impairment annually during the first quarter each fiscal year the reporting unit level using fair value approach, accordance with the provisions SFAS . Our annual testing resulted impairment charges goodwill fiscal and . event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value, goodwill will evaluated for impairment between annual tests. During fiscal , had material acquisitions. Goodwill decreased $ million primarily result goodwill allocated business that was divested the current year. The $ billion increase goodwill during fiscal related principally the following acquisitions: Navision with $ billion allocated Microsoft Business Solutions; $ million for the Rare Ltd. acquisition allocated Home and Entertainment; and Placeware, Inc. with $ million allocated Information Worker. NOTE INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components finite-lived intangible assets are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Contract-based $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Technology-based ( ) ( ) Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ $ ( ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ PAGE Part Item During fiscal , recorded additions intangible assets $ million, which $ million was related comprehensive intellectual property license that received conjunction with the settlement InterTrust . Microsoft . other material intangibles were acquired fiscal . During fiscal , recorded additions intangible assets $ million, primarily related the acquisition Navision and Rare Ltd., described Note \x96 Acquisitions. The components intangible assets acquired during fiscal and are follows \x96 significant residual value estimated for these assets: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount Weighted average life Amount Weighted average life Contract-based $ years $ years Technology-based years years Marketing-related years \x96 \x96 Customer-related years years Total $ years $ years During , research and development assets $ million were acquired and written off accordance with FASB Interpretation . (FIN ), Applicability FASB Statement . Business Combinations Accounted for the Purchase Method . Those write-offs are included Research and Development expenses. Acquired finite-lived intangibles are generally amortized straight line basis over weighted average periods. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal and $ million for fiscal . The estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets June , follows: ( millions) June Amount $ Total $ NOTE INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Current taxes: . and state $ , $ , $ , International , Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item . and international components income before income taxes are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Extraterritorial income exclusion tax benefit ( )% ( )% ( )% Permanent reinvestment foreign earnings ( )% ( )% ( )% Other reconciling items % \x96 % Total % % % The other reconciling items include the $ million benefit from the resolution the issue remanded the Circuit Court Appeals and the impact the non-deductible European Commission fine. Deferred income taxes were: ( millions) June Deferred income tax assets: Revenue items $ , $ , Expense items , , Impaired investments , , Stock-based compensation expense , , Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: Unrealized gain investments $ ( , ) $ ( , ) International earnings ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( , ) Deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income taxes $ , $ , Reported : Current deferred tax assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred tax assets , , Net deferred income taxes $ , $ , Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. have not provided for . deferred income taxes foreign withholding taxes $ billion our undistributed earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries, all which relate fiscal , , and earnings, because these earnings are intended permanently reinvested operations outside the United States. PAGE Part Item December , , the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals reversed, part, earlier . Tax Court decision. , the remaining issue remanded the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals was resolved closing all tax years with the IRS through . The IRS currently auditing through . Management believes any adjustments that may ultimately required will not material the financial statements. Income taxes paid were $ billion fiscal , $ billion fiscal , and $ billion fiscal . NOTE STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares common stock outstanding are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Beginning balance , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , discussed Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plans, million options were transferred JPMorgan Chase Bank (JPMorgan) under the stock option transfer program. The options transferred JPMorgan were amended and restated upon transfer contain terms and conditions typical equity option transactions entered into between sophisticated financial counterparties arm\x92 length using standard terms and definitions for equity derivatives. June , , the options have strike prices ranging from $ $ per share and have expiration dates between December and December . Our board directors has approved program repurchase shares our common stock reduce the dilutive effect our stock option and stock purchase plans. total million shares have been repurchased open market transactions over the last three fiscal years for approximately $ billion. repurchased million shares for $ billion, million shares for $ billion, and million shares for $ billion fiscal , , and , respectively. Additionally, , acquired million our shares result structured stock repurchase transaction entered into , which gave the right acquire such shares exchange for -front net payment $ million. any period, cash used financing activities related common stock repurchased may differ from the comparable change Stockholders\x92 Equity, reflecting timing differences between the recognition share repurchase transactions and their settlement for cash. January and September , , our board directors declared annual dividends our common stock $ and $ per share, respectively. The dividends were paid March and November , , respectively, shareholders record the close business February , and October , . PAGE Part Item NOTE OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The activity other comprehensive income and related tax effects are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Net gains/ (losses) derivative instruments: Unrealized gains/ (losses), net tax effect $ , $( ) and $ $ $ ( ) $ Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $( ) , $ and $ ( ) Net gains/ (losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/ (losses): Unrealized holding gains/ (losses), net tax effect $( ) , $ and $( ) ( , ) , ( , ) Reclassification adjustment for (gains)/losses included net income, net tax effect $ , $ and $ , Net unrealized investment gains/ (losses) , ( ) Translation adjustments and other Other comprehensive income / (loss) $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) The components accumulated other comprehensive income were: ( millions) Year Ended June Net gains/ (losses) derivative instruments $ ( ) $ Net unrealized investment gains , Translation adjustments and other Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ , NOTE EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS Effective July , , adopted the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure . Under the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the value the award and recognized expense over the vesting period. connection with the use the retroactive restatement method, income statement amounts have been restated for fiscal and reflect results the fair-value method SFAS had been applied from its original effective date. Total compensation cost recognized income for stock-based employee compensation awards was $ billion fiscal , $ billion fiscal , and $ billion fiscal . The amounts for fiscal include $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) due the completion the employee stock option transfer program. Employee Stock Purchase Plan. have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares our common stock could purchased six month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six month period. Employees could purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During fiscal , , and employees purchased million shares, million shares, and million shares average prices $ , $ , and $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. PAGE Part Item During the fourth quarter fiscal , the administrative committee under the plan approved change the common stock purchase discount and approved the elimination the related look back period and change quarterly purchase periods. result, effective beginning fiscal , shares our common stock may purchased employees three months intervals % the fair market value the last day each three month period. Savings Plan. have savings plan the United States, that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, well number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal , , and . Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. Stock Plans . fiscal implemented changes employee compensation designed help continue attract and retain the best employees, and better align employee interests with those our shareholders. fiscal , began granting employees stock awards instead stock options. The stock award program offers employees the opportunity earn shares our stock over time, rather than options that give employees the right purchase stock set price. also completed employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal whereby employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested stock options with strike price $ higher (\x93eligible options\x94) JPMorgan. The unvested eligible options that were transferred JPMorgan became vested upon the transfer. The price paid JPMorgan for the transferred options was determined reference the arithmetic average the closing prices Microsoft common stock during the period from November , December , , which was $ . total , ( %) the , eligible employees elected participate the stock option transfer program and million ( %) the million eligible options were tendered. Under the terms the program, JPMorgan paid $ million for the transferred options. made initial payment $ million participating employees for the transferred options, with remaining portion paid one more payments that are subject participating employees\x92 continued employment over the next two three years. The options that were transferred JPMorgan resulted stock-based compensation expense $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) which reflected the results fiscal . This expense consists the unrecognized compensation costs the options that were transferred, less the amounts payable applicable those previously unvested options for which payment contingent upon continued employment participating employees. The contingent payments applicable unvested eligible options that are subject continued employment participating employees will recognized compensation expense over the vesting period the contingent payments. The stock option transfer program also resulted decrease our long-term deferred tax assets due the excess recorded compensation expense for these options over the related tax deduction reported our tax return. For fiscal , deferred tax assets were reduced approximately $ billion with offsetting reduction paid- capital, reflecting the reduction previously recorded deductions reported our tax return excess stock based compensation expense. description our stock plans follows. have stock plans for directors and for officers, employees, consultants and advisors. The plans provide for awards stock options and stock awards. June , , aggregate million shares were available for future grant under our stock plans. Our plans under which awards may issued not contain separate limitations the number stock awards; all million shares remaining available for grant June , could awarded stock awards. addition, awards that expire are cancelled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. The options transferred JPMorgan have been removed from our plans; any options transferred JPMorgan that expire without being exercised will not become available for grant under any our plans. Stock Awards and Shared Performance Stock Awards . Stock awards are grants that entitle the holder shares common stock the award vests. During fiscal , million stock awards with weighted-average fair value $ per share were granted and generally vest ratably over five-year period. Approximately , stock awards vested and million stock awards were cancelled during fiscal . PAGE Part Item Shared Performance Stock Awards are form stock award which the number shares ultimately received depends our performance against specified performance targets. The performance period July , through June , (January , through June , for certain executive officers). the end the performance period, the number shares stock and stock awards issued will determined adjusting upward downward from the target range between % and % ( % % for certain executive officers). The final performance percentage which the payout will based, considering performance metrics established for the performance period, will determined the board directors committee the board its sole discretion. Shares stock will issued the end the performance period and the stock awards vest ratably over the following two years. fiscal , Shared Performance Stock Awards representing the targeted number shares for the performance period ending June , were granted the aggregate amount million shares with weighted average fair value $ per share. Because these awards cover three-year period, Shared Performance Stock Awards will only awarded fiscal and newly hired and promoted employees eligible receive Shared Performance Stock Awards. shared performance stock awards vested and million shared performance stock awards were cancelled during fiscal . Stock Awards and Shared Performance Stock Awards are amortized over years using the straight line method. Stock Options. Nonqualified stock options have been granted our directors under our non-employee director stock plans. Nonqualified and incentive stock options have been granted our officers and employees under our employee stock plans. Options granted before generally vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted after vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. June , , stock options for million shares were vested. The weighted average Black-Scholes value options granted under the stock plans during fiscal , , and was $ , $ , and $ , respectively. The fair value each option grant estimated the date grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants: Year Ended June Weighted average expected life years Dividend per share $ \x96 $ $ Volatility % % % Risk-free interest rate % % % Employee stock options outstanding are follows: ( millions, except per share amounts) Price per Share Shares Range Weighted average Balance, June , , $ \x96 $ $ Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , \x96 Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Stock Option Transfer Program ( ) \x96 Canceled ( ) \x96 Balance, June , \x96 PAGE Part Item For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics outstanding employee stock options June , are follows: ( millions, except per share amounts and years) Outstanding options Exercisable options Range exercise prices Shares Remaining life (years) Weighted average price Shares Weighted average price $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ June , , million transferred options Morgan remained outstanding and are excluded from the amounts noted employee options outstanding the tables above. See Note . addition, the tables above include the total options outstanding million options outstanding that were granted conjunction with corporate acquisitions. These options are included the option totals; however, they are excluded from the exercise price ranges presented. These options had exercise price range $ $ and weighted average exercise price $ . NOTE EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components basic and diluted earnings per share are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect employee stock options and awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings per share: Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ For the years ended June , , and , million, billion and billion shares attributable outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices the stock options were greater than equal the average price the common shares, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. For the year ended June , , million shared performance stock awards, out million targeted amount granted, have been excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the number shares ultimately issued contingent our performance against metrics established for the performance period, discussed Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plans. PAGE Part Item NOTE ACQUISITIONS fiscal , had material acquisitions. fiscal , acquired all the outstanding equity interests Navision , Rare Ltd., and Placeware, Inc. Navision, headquartered Vedbaek, Denmark, provider integrated business solutions software for small and mid-sized businesses the European market that part the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. acquired Navision July , for $ billion consisting primarily $ million cash and the issuance million common shares our common stock valued $ million. The value the common shares issued was determined based the average market price our common shares over the two-day period before and after terms the acquisition were agreed and approved. Rare video game developer located outside Leicestershire, England, that has broaden the portfolio games available for the Xbox video game system. Rare was acquired September , for $ million consisting primarily $ million cash and included the Home and Entertainment segment. Placeware, located Mountain View, California, facilitates secure, highly reliable, cross-firewall Web conferencing experiences allowing users conduct business meetings online from , and part our Real Time Collaboration business unit the Information Worker segment. Placeware was acquired April , for $ million, consisting primarily $ million cash. Navision, Rare, and Placeware have been consolidated into our financial statements since their respective acquisition dates. None the acquisitions, individually the aggregate, are material our consolidated results operations. Accordingly, pro forma financial information not included this note. The estimated fair values the assets acquired and liabilities assumed the date the acquisitions for fiscal are follows: ( millions) Navision July , Rare Ltd. September , Placeware, Inc. April , Current assets $ $ $ Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets Goodwill , Total assets acquired , Current liabilities ( ) ( ) ( ) Long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 ( ) Total liabilities assumed ( ) ( ) ( ) Net assets acquired $ , $ $ The $ billion goodwill resulting from the Navision acquisition was assigned the Microsoft Business Solutions segment. that total amount, approximately $ million expected deductible for tax purposes. The $ million goodwill the Rare acquisition was assigned the Home and Entertainment segment. that total amount, approximately $ million expected deductible for tax purposes. The $ million goodwill the Placeware acquisition was assigned the Information Worker segment. None the goodwill expected deductible for tax purposes. The components intangible assets acquired the acquisitions above are follows ( significant residual value estimated for these assets): ( millions) Navision Weighted average life Rare Ltd. Weighted average life Placeware, Inc. Weighted average life Contract-based $ years $ years $ years Technology-based years years years Marketing-related years years year Customer-related \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 years Research and Development ( ) \x96 ( ) \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ years $ years $ years ( ) Amounts assigned research and development assets were written off accordance with FIN . Those write-offs were included Research and Development expenses. PAGE Part Item NOTE COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases, millions dollars, are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount $ and thereafter $ have committed $ million for constructing new buildings. have unconditionally guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company (Jupiter). These guarantees arose February , conjunction with the expiration prior financing arrangements, including previous guarantees . The financing arrangements were entered into Jupiter part financing its operations. part Jupiter\x92 new financing agreement, agreed guarantee repayment Jupiter the loans approximately $ million. The estimated fair value and the carrying value the guarantees was $ million which was added the carrying value the related investment. The guarantees are effect until the earlier repayment the loans, including accrued interest and fees, February , . The maximum amount the guarantees limited the sum the total due and unpaid principal amounts, accrued and unpaid interest, and any other related expenses. Additionally, the maximum amount the guarantees, denominated Japanese yen, will vary based fluctuations foreign exchange rates. were required make payments under the guarantees, may recover all portion those payments upon liquidation the Jupiter\x92 assets. The proceeds from such liquidation cannot accurately estimated due the multitude factors that would affect the valuation and realization the proceeds the event liquidation. connection with various operating leases, issued residual value guarantees, which provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. addition, also provide indemnification against credit risk several geographical locations our volume license resellers case the resellers fail collect from the end user. Due the nature the indemnification provided our resellers, can not estimate the fair value, nor determine the total nominal amount the indemnification. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Our product warranty accrual reflects management\x92 best estimate our probable liability under its product warranties (primarily relating the Xbox console). determine the warranty accrual based known product failures ( any), historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Our warranty accrual totals $ million. There has been significant activity impacting the results operations for any period presented. PAGE Part Item NOTE CONTINGENCIES Government antitrust cases. are the defendant . . Microsoft and New York . Microsoft , companion lawsuits filed the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice (DOJ) and group eighteen state Attorneys General alleging violations the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. After the trial, the District Court entered Findings Fact and Conclusions Law stating that had violated Sections and the Sherman Act and various state antitrust laws. Judgment was entered June , ordering, among other things, our breakup into two companies. June , , the . Court Appeals for the District Columbia Circuit affirmed part, reversed part, and vacated the Judgment its entirety and remanded the case the District Court for new trial one Section claim and for entry new judgment consistent with its ruling. its ruling, the Court Appeals substantially narrowed the bases liability found the District Court, but affirmed some the District Court\x92 conclusions that had violated Section . entered into settlement with the United States November , . Nine states (New York, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina and Wisconsin) agreed settle substantially the same terms November , . November , , the Court approved the settlement being the public interest, conditioned upon the parties\x92 agreement modification one provision related the Court\x92 ongoing jurisdiction. Two trade groups unsuccessfully sought intervene challenge the approval the settlement and have appealed. Nine states and the District Columbia continued litigate the remedies phase New York . Microsoft . November , , the Court entered Final Judgment this part the litigation that largely mirrored the settlement between , the DOJ and the settling states, with some modifications and different regime for enforcing compliance. The Court declined impose other and broader remedies sought the non-settling states. Two states, Massachusetts and West Virginia, appealed from this decision. West Virginia dismissed its appeal part settlement with several other cases. June , , the . Court Appeals for the . Circuit unanimously affirmed the settlement and the Final Judgment. European Commission competition law matter. March , the European Commission announced decision its competition law investigation Microsoft. The Commission concluded that infringed European competition law refusing provide our competitors with licenses certain protocol technology the Windows server operating systems and including streaming media playback functionality Windows desktop operating systems. The Commission ordered make the relevant licenses our technology available our competitors and develop and make available version the Windows desktop operating system that does not include specified software relating media playback. The decision also imposed fine \x80 million, which resulted charge \x80 million ($ million). filed appeal the decision the Court First Instance June , and will seek interim measures suspending the operation certain provisions the decision. contest the conclusion that European competition law was infringed and will defend our position vigorously. hearing our petition for interim measures will held September \x96 October , . other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state Attorneys General have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. Antitrust, unfair competition and overcharge class actions. large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits have been filed against various state and federal courts. The federal cases have been consolidated the . District Court for Maryland. These cases allege that have competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications, and they seek recover behalf variously defined classes direct and indirect purchasers\x92 alleged overcharges for these products. date, courts have dismissed all claims for damages brought against indirect purchasers under federal law and states. Nine those state court decisions have been affirmed appeal. Claims behalf foreign purchasers have also been dismissed the federal court Maryland. Appeals these state rulings are pending two states. Courts eleven states have ruled that these cases may proceed class actions, while courts two states have denied class certification. The Maryland federal District Court has certified class direct purchasers certain our operating system software that acquired the software from the shop Microsoft com web site pursuant direct marketing campaign and otherwise denied certification the proposed classes. The denial certification the proposed classes has been appealed and that appeal still pending. Members the certified class licensed fewer than , copies -issue operating system software from . September , reached agreement with plaintiffs\x92 counsel settle that action, which received final approval April . , reached agreement with counsel for the California plaintiffs settle all claims consolidated cases that state. Under the proposed settlement, class members will able obtain vouchers PAGE Part Item claims made basis that entitle the class members reimbursed the face value their vouchers for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total amount vouchers issued will depend the number class members who claim and are issued vouchers. Two-thirds the amount vouchers unissued unredeemed class members will made available certain schools California the form vouchers that also may redeemed for cash against purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware, software and related services. Since the beginning , also reached similar agreements settle all claims number other states. The proposed settlements these states are structured similarly the California settlement, except that, among other differences, one-half the amounts vouchers unissued class members will made available certain schools the relevant states. The maximum amount vouchers issued these settlements, including the California settlement, $ billion. The actual costs these settlements will less than that maximum amount, depending the number class members and schools who are issued and redeem vouchers. The settlements California, Florida, Kansas, Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Dakota, Tennessee and West Virginia have received final approval the relevant court. The proposed settlements Arizona, the District Columbia, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Mexico and Vermont have received preliminary approval the courts those states, but still require final approval. estimate the total cost resolve all these cases will range between $ billion and $ billion with the actual cost dependent upon many unknown factors such the quantity and mix products for which claims will made, the number eligible class members who ultimately use the vouchers, the nature hardware and software that acquired using the vouchers, and the cost administering the claims process. accordance with SFAS , Accounting for Contingencies , and FIN , Reasonable Estimation the Amount Loss , have recorded contingent liability $ billion, net administrative expenses and legal fees paid. RealNetworks litigation. December , , RealNetworks, Inc. filed suit against alleging violations federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws, related streaming media features Windows and related technologies. RealNetworks seeks damages and injunctive relief, including permanent injunction requiring offer version Windows products with streaming media features. deny the allegations and will vigorously defend the action. RealNetworks filed the case federal court San Jose, California. has been consolidated for pretrial purposes with other cases pending the . District Court Baltimore. Patent cases. are the defendant more than patent infringement cases that are defending vigorously. the case Eolas Technologies, Inc. and University California . Microsoft , filed the . District Court for the Northern District Illinois February , , the plaintiffs accused the browser functionality Windows infringement. August , , the jury awarded the plaintiffs approximately $ million damages for infringement from the date the plaintiffs\x92 patent issued through September . The plaintiffs are seeking equitable accounting for damages from September the present. January , , the trial court entered final judgment $ million, including post-trial interest $ million, and entered injunction against distribution any new products, but stayed execution the judgment and the injunction pending our appeal. filed our notice appeal February , . October , , the . Patent Office issued letter stating that has initiated Director-ordered -examination the Eolas patent. February , , pursuant this -examination proceeding, the Patent Office issued Office Action rejecting the claims the Eolas patent. believe the total cost resolve this case will not material our financial position results operations. The actual costs are dependent upon many unknown factors such success appeal and the events retrial the case should the case remanded trial following appeal. Research Corporation Technologies, Inc. . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the District Arizona, plaintiff has asserted family six patents relating halftoning which believes are infringed certain printing and display functionality allegedly present different versions Windows and Office. Plaintiff seeks yet unspecified amount damages the form \x93reasonable royalties\x94 various Microsoft products dating far back Windows and Office . The case scheduled for trial April . TVI . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the Northern District California, plaintiff accuses the Autoplay feature Windows infringement. This case scheduled for trial September . Arendi USA, Inc. and Arendi Holding Limited . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the District Rhode Island, plaintiff has accused certain Smart Tags features Microsoft Office and Office infringing one patent. Trial scheduled for September, . Adverse outcomes some all the pending cases may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against adversely affecting distribution our operating system application products. The risks associated with adverse decision may result material settlements. PAGE Part Item Sun Microsystems agreements. April , , entered into series agreements with Sun Microsystems, Inc. resolve all pending litigation between the parties, attempt avoid future disputes, and create environment conducive future cooperation. These agreements included Settlement Agreement, Patent Covenant and Standstill Agreement, and Technology Collaboration Agreement. Pursuant the agreements, made payments totaling $ billion Sun. the Settlement Agreement, Sun agreed discontinue its participation proceedings pending against Microsoft instituted the Commission the European Communities and agreed dismiss with prejudice the action filed the Northern District California, Sun Microsystems, Inc. . Microsoft Corp. , Civil Action . - - RMW (PVT) ( . Cal.), and later transferred the United States District Court for the District Maryland under MDL Docket . . Sun released Microsoft from any claims that were could have been asserted the proceedings pending before the European Communities, its action pending the ., and any claims based any actions events discussed the Findings Fact United States . Microsoft Corp. and New York, . Microsoft Corp. , . Supp. ( . ). Pursuant the terms the Settlement Agreement, Microsoft paid Sun $ million, which was recorded litigation related expense. The Patent Covenant and Standstill Agreement provides that neither Sun nor Microsoft will sue the other, certain authorized channel and end user licensees, for damages for past patent infringement. Microsoft has the option extending this covenant not sue each year until exchange for annual extension payment, long certain conditions are met. The agreement provides that April , , provided that certain conditions are met, the companies will grant each other irrevocable, non-exclusive, perpetual patent licenses, with some reciprocal limitations scope and use, well additional ten year covenant not sue for patent infringement with respect certain products. Pursuant the terms this Agreement, Microsoft paid Sun $ million, which was recorded litigation related expense. Sun and Microsoft also entered into reciprocal Technology Collaboration Agreement. This collaboration agreement provides both companies with access aspects each other\x92 server-based technology for use developing new server software products and enhancing existing server software products, order improve interoperability. provides perpetual license between Microsoft and Sun pursuant all subject intellectual property rights (including patents and trade secrets) enable either company implement its server operating system products any server-based communications protocols that are implemented over seven year period the other company order interoperate with their respectively identified server and client operating system products. Royalty obligations incurred Microsoft for use inclusion covered Sun technology Microsoft products will, incurred, credited against the $ million already paid pursuant the terms the Technology Collaboration Agreement, based royalty rates determined the future Sun. This license removes concerns under traditional patent and trade secret intellectual property frameworks enabling Microsoft\x92 current and future client and server operating system products interoperate with the most popular Sun products wide range customer computing environments. The extent and timing Microsoft\x92 consumption this credit subject uncertainty. Much the technology that the companies agreed license each other does not exist useable form and the agreement does not specify individual royalty payments for implementation specifications for particular communications protocols. After reaching this agreement with Sun, valued the intellectual property rights received. determining the fair value the intellectual property received, considered the uncertainty associated with the timing and likely use Sun\x92 technology, which included estimating the likelihood adoption protocols and potential royalties saved. That valuation resulted fair value $ million for the right use Sun\x92 licensed protocols certain products, which recorded intellectual property asset. Reflecting the uncertainty associated with the timing and likely use Sun\x92 technology, the remaining amount $ million was recorded litigation related expense. Intertrust settlement. April , , the previously reported case InterTrust . Microsoft was settled agreement the parties. Under the terms this agreement, have taken comprehensive license InterTrust\x92 patent portfolio, including pending patent applications, and agreed make one-time payment InterTrust $ million. The agreement involved combination license intellectual property assets for which recorded intangible asset $ million and payment $ million for settlement legal claims. the total payment, $ million was recovered through insurance and had impact our results operations. The agreement resolves all outstanding litigation between the parties. Other. are also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. While management currently believes that resolving all these matters, individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position our results operations, the litigation and other claims noted above are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may PAGE Part Item change the future. Were unfavorable final outcome occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect becomes reasonably estimable. NOTE SEGMENT INFORMATION Segment revenue and operating income/(loss) follows: ( ) ( millions) Year Ended June Revenue Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Information Worker , , , Microsoft Business Solutions MSN , , , Mobile and Embedded Devices Home and Entertainment , , , Reconciling amounts ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Operating Income/(Loss) Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Information Worker , , , Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) ( ) ( ) MSN ( ) ( ) Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) ( ) ( ) Home and Entertainment ( ) ( ) ( ) Reconciling amounts ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , ( ) Fiscal and information has been restated reflect the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , discussed Note . addition, fiscal information has been restated for certain internal reorganizations and changes certain internal accounting methods conform the current period presentation. was not practicable restate fiscal information for these changes, nor was practicable present the current year basis consistent with fiscal . SFAS , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. This standard requires segmentation based our internal organization and reporting revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. Our financial reporting systems present various data for management run the business, including internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. The segments are designed allocate resources internally and provide framework determine management responsibility. Operating segments are defined components enterprise about which separate financial information available that evaluated regularly the chief operating decision maker, decision making group, deciding how allocate resources and assessing performance. Our chief operating decision maker our Chief Executive Officer. The types products and services provided each segment are summarized below: Client \x96 Windows Professional and Home, Windows Professional, and other standard Windows operating systems. PAGE Part Item Server and Tools \x96 Server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and other servers. Also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier product support services, and Microsoft consulting services. Information Worker \x96 Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint Portal Server CALs, other information worker products including Microsoft LiveMeeting and OneNote, allocation for Server CALs, and professional product support services. Microsoft Business Solutions \x96 Microsoft Great Plains, Microsoft Navision, Microsoft Axapta, Microsoft Solomon, Microsoft CRM, MBN Retail Manager and other business applications and services. MSN \x96 Personal communication services, such -mail and instant messaging, information services, such MSN Search and the MSN portals and channels, and paid services including MSN Internet access, MSN Premium Web services, and MSN Mobile service. Mobile and Embedded Devices \x96 Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded device operating systems, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. Home and Entertainment \x96 Xbox video game system, games, the Home Products Division (HPD), and platform products. Because our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments, and therefore these segments are not designed measure operating income loss directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and incent shared efforts. Management will continually evaluate the alignment product development organizations, sales organizations, and inter-segment commissions for segment reporting purposes, which may result changes segment allocations future periods. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Reconciling amounts include adjustments conform with . GAAP and corporate level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, quarter end cut off timing, and accelerated amortization for depreciation, stock awards and performance-based stock awards. addition, certain revenue and expenses are excluded from segments included corporate level activity including certain legal settlements and legal contingent liabilities. Significant reconciling items are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Operating income reconciling amounts: Legal settlements and contingent liabilities ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Revenue reconciling amounts ( ) Other ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Total $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Other primarily includes corporate operations related sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, , corporate development and procurement activities; research and development; and various amounts conform with . GAAP. PAGE Part Item Sales Dell and its subsidiaries the aggregate accounted for approximately % total fiscal revenue. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels and were included all operating segments. single customer accounted for more than % revenue . Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which operate, follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes shipments customers the United States, licensing certain OEMs and multinational organizations, and exports finished goods, primarily Asia, Latin America, and Canada. Long-lived assets, classified the geographic location the controlling statutory company which that company operates, are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States $ , $ , Other countries , Total $ , $ , NOTE SUBSEQUENT EVENT July , , our board directors approved quarterly dividend $ per share payable September , , shareholders record August , . addition, the board approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over the next four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. The board also approved one-time special dividend $ per share, approximately $ billion, subject shareholder approval stock plan amendments that will allow certain adjustments employee equity compensation awards offset the impact the special dividend. The special dividend will payable December , , shareholders record November , , conditioned upon shareholder approval amendments the employee stock plans the annual meeting shareholders scheduled held November , . PAGE Part Item QUARTERLY INFORMATION ( millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Total Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ ` , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , ( ) , ( ) , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Includes charges $ million (pre-tax) related the Time Warner settlement and $ billion impairments investments. ( ) Includes stock-based compensation charges $ billion for the employee stock option transfer program. ( ) Includes charges $ billion (pre-tax) related the Sun Microsystems Inc. settlement and fine imposed the European Commission. PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Corporation\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. described Note the financial statements, the Company retroactively adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , effective July , . / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Deloitte & Touche LLP Seattle, Washington August , PAGE Part Item , , ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION None. PAGE Part III Item , , , , , PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information about our Directors may found under the caption \x93Election Directors and Management Information\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Controller and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website www microsoft com msft. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature such amendment waiver that website report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation\x94 and \x93Information About the Board and its Committees\x97Director Compensation\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 and \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth under the captions \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the heading \x93Fees Billed Deloitte & Touche LLP\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Annual Report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. PAGE Part Item ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) . Call Option Transaction Confirmation dated December , between Microsoft Corporation and JPMorgan Chase Bank ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Gain and Bonus Deferral Program * Form Stock Award Agreement * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement for the January , June , performance period * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement for the July , June , performance period * Form Stock Option Agreement * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Subsidiaries Registrant . Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act . Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement. PAGE ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}