{'item 1. ': 'Business General Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" "Microsoft") was founded partnership and incorporated . Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports wide range software products for multitude computing devices. Microsoft software includes scalable operating systems for intelligent devices, personal computers (PCs) and servers; server applications for client server environments; knowledge worker productivity applications; and software development tools. The Company\' online efforts include the MSN( ) network Internet products and services; -commerce platforms; and alliances with companies involved with broadband access and various forms digital interactivity. Microsoft also licenses consumer software programs; sells input devices; trains and certifies system integrators; and researches and develops advanced technologies for future software products. Microsoft\' business strategy emphasizes the development broad line software products for information technology ( ) professionals, knowledge workers, developers, and consumers, marketed through multiple channels distribution. The Company divided into three main areas: the Business Divisions, the Sales and Support Group, and the Operations Group. The Business Divisions act parallel, each with responsibility for the product planning and marketing strategies for their respective customer segments. These customer segments are the Windows( ) Platforms segment, the Business Productivity Applications and Developer segment, and the Consumer, Commerce, and Other segment. The Windows Platforms segment contains three groups. The Business and Enterprise Group develops and markets and server operating systems required large organizations and professionals. The Consumer Windows Group oversees and develops operating systems designed primarily for stand-alone PCs used homes and small businesses. The Streaming Media Division develops digital media platform for streaming music, video, and synchronized multimedia over the Internet. The Business Productivity Applications and Developer segment has two primary groups organized around providing software and solutions for knowledge workers and software developers. The Business Productivity Group creates and markets primarily desktop and server applications. The Developer Group builds architecture and software tools for developers. The Consumer, Commerce, and Other segment includes the Consumer and Commerce Group and the Home and Retail Division. The Consumer and Commerce Group provides services consumers over the Internet and provides software solutions and services for businesses conduct commerce the Internet. The Home and Retail Division creates and markets productivity programs, learning and entertainment products, and hardware peripherals. For financial reporting, revenue from Microsoft Press, consulting, and certification system integrators included this segment. See notes financial statements for financial information regarding segment reporting. Microsoft has research lab dedicated creating new technology and converting problems into tangible solutions that Microsoft developers can incorporate into products meet customers\' needs. The Sales and Support Group responsible for building long-term business relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), enterprises, small- and medium-sized businesses, application developers, educational institutions, and consumers. Enterprises are offered tailored license programs, enterprise-wide support, consulting services, and other specialized services. The group also manages the channels that serve customers working with OEMs, distributors, and resellers. addition the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales organizations: the South Pacific and Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; and Asia. The Sales and Support group supports the Company\' products with technical support for end users, developers, and departments organizations. The Operations Group responsible for managing business operations and overall business planning. This includes the process manufacturing and delivering finished goods and licenses; corporate functions such finance, administration, human resources, and legal; and the publishing efforts Microsoft Press. Products Windows Platforms The Windows Platforms segment responsible for the development and server platforms, including the Microsoft( ) Windows and Windows ( ) operating systems. The segment also responsible for developing the Microsoft Internet Explorer browsing software and Microsoft Windows Media( ) Technologies. operating systems perform variety functions, such allocating computer memory, scheduling applications software execution, managing information and communication flow among the various components, and enabling end users access files and information from variety sources. The Windows operating system for servers enterprise-wide platform for building and deploying distributed applications for networked PCs. The Windows Platforms segment also provides products for developing, running, and managing Internet and intranet applications and content. Windows . The successor Windows , Windows personal computer operating system that provides Web-oriented user interface, better system performance along with easier system diagnostics and maintenance. Windows supports graphics, sound, and multimedia technologies and provides the ability easily add and remove peripheral devices and support for Universal Serial Bus (USB). Windows was released June . Windows . The successor the -DOS( ) operating system and Windows , Windows was released August . Windows fully integrated, multitasking -bit operating system, designed compatible with Intel microprocessor-based PCs, most hardware devices, and applications for Windows and -DOS. Windows Workstation. fully integrated, multitasking -bit operating system, Windows Workstation provides security, robustness, and portability. Windows Workstation designed for mission- critical computing and provides the same features and applications programming interfaces (APIs) for Intel and Alpha AXP microprocessors. Microsoft Windows Workstation combines the Windows operating system interface and usability features with the reliability and security Windows for the business environment. Windows Server. Windows Server operating system foundation for both server applications and file and print sharing, with network management features, administration tools, security, and high availability. Windows Server provides scalable platform for business critical applications and databases, connectivity, system management, and electronic mail ( -mail) servers. The operating system integrates Web services such Microsoft Internet Information Server, service used manage intranet and Internet functionality, and Microsoft FrontPage( ) Web site creation and management tool. Windows Server, Terminal Server Edition, extension the Windows Server, offers the application support the Windows operating system platform with the centrally managed environment the mainframe with terminal. Windows Server Enterprise Edition provides the means for building and deploying large-scale distributed applications for large and mission- critical servers featuring comprehensive clustering for scalability and availability. Other Servers. Microsoft Proxy Server creates single, secure gateway the Internet; Microsoft SNA Server provides connectivity host data and applications; and Microsoft Systems Management Server helps centrally manages the distributed environment with integrated features, including hardware inventory, software inventory and metering, software distribution and installation, and remote troubleshooting tools. Windows Media Technologies. Microsoft Windows Media Technologies provide the ability create, deliver, and play streaming media files for applications ranging from news and entertainment -commerce and corporate training. Windows Media Technologies components include the Windows Media Tools, Windows Media Services streaming server, and Windows Media Player. Productivity Applications and Developer The Productivity Applications and Developer segment develops desktop applications, server applications, developer tools, and Web authoring tools. Business Productivity The Business Productivity Division delivers integrated business productivity solutions for the knowledge worker, including the Office family products, other desktop applications, server applications, and the Windows operating system for productivity appliances. Microsoft Office. Microsoft Office suite software programs featuring seamless integration the most commonly used desktop applications. Microsoft Office based upon document-centric concept, with common commands and extensive use cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office available several versions, with certain combinations products, and available for the Windows and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Office integrates core productivity tools with the Web simplify publishing Office documents intranet Internet site, simplifies information system support with self-repairing installation, and has enhanced usability with customizable menus based IntelliSense( ) technology rules. Products offered the various versions include the word processor Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, Microsoft Outlook( ) messaging and collaboration client, Microsoft PowerPoint( ) presentation graphics program, Microsoft Access database management application, and others. Microsoft Word word- processing program designed easily create professional-looking documents for the Web, -mail, and print. Microsoft Excel creates data-rich spreadsheets for universal viewing the Internet and for collaboration, allows users analyze data with charts, and incorporates Microsoft PivotTable( ) views and graphs. Microsoft Outlook messaging and collaboration client provides single location for organizing and managing day- -day information, including -mail, calendars, business contacts, and task lists. Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program complete set tools for creating professional presentations. Microsoft Access database management application allows for easy access and retrieval information and includes pre-packaged solutions create databases quickly. Microsoft FrontPage Web site creation and management tool for Web sites the Internet intranets. Microsoft PhotoDraw( ) business graphics software program for creating custom business graphics editing illustrations and photos. Other Desktop Application Products. The Company also offers other stand-alone desktop application products. Microsoft Project critical path project scheduling and resource allocation program. Microsoft Publisher easy- - use, entry-level desktop publishing program. Most the applications included the various productivity suites are also licensed separately. Server Applications. The Microsoft BackOffice( ) family server applications integrated suite software products based Windows Server that includes file and print services, applications, database, messaging, groupware, desktop management, Internet access, transaction processing, and host connectivity. The BackOffice suite enables organizations share information, collaborate, and manage and deploy business-critical applications and includes BackOffice Server, Exchange Server, Proxy Server, Site Server, SQL Server( ), and others. Microsoft BackOffice Small Business Server designed for smaller companies users less integrated solution for sharing files, databases, printers, electronic mail, fax services, applications, and other resources. Microsoft Site Server allows comprehensive management sophisticated Web sites and their content. Microsoft Site Server Commerce helps businesses engage customers and partners with creating cost- effective commerce sites and applications, targeted online advertising and marketing, and personalized promotion. Microsoft Exchange Server. The Company\' messaging and collaboration server Microsoft Exchange Server, which provides -mail, group scheduling, task management, and document routing capabilities. Exchange Server offers scalable, reliable, and secure environment for multiple clients, and Internet protocols part the core server architecture. also includes tools create collaboration applications. Windows . The Company delivers software and platform technologies for broad range productivity appliances. Microsoft develops and markets Windows , scaleable Windows platform for communications, entertainment, and mobile computing devices. The Windows operating system built around API that consistent with other -bit Windows-based operating systems. Windows allows productivity appliances communicate with each other, share information with Windows-based PCs, and connect the Internet. Microsoft teams with hardware companies that build Windows -based devices. Developer The Developer Group provides software development tools and distributed application platforms for developers Windows-based applications and Internet applications. These products and services empower independent software developers, corporate developers, solutions developers, and Webmasters create broad spectrum applications. Microsoft Windows Distributed interNet Applications (DNA) Architecture the application development model for the Windows platform. Windows DNA specifies how develop robust, scalable, distributed applications using the Windows platform; extend existing data and external applications support the Internet; and support wide range client devices. Windows DNA provides for the integration Web and client server application development models through the Component Object Model (COM). COM underlies large majority the code developed for Windows and Windows operating systems. COM+, extension COM, builds COM\' integrated services and features, making easier for developers create and use software components any language, using any tool. Developer Tools. Software development tools and computer languages allow software developers write programs particular computer language and translate programs into binary machine-readable set commands that activate and instruct hardware. The Company develops and markets number software development environments and language compilers. Microsoft Visual ++( ) development system the Company\' development system for Windows-based application development. The Microsoft Visual Basic( ) development system provides easy access wide variety data sources integrating the Microsoft Access database engine and the ability take advantage investments commercial applications. The Microsoft Visual InterDev( ) Web development system includes integrated, team-based development tools for building Web-based applications based HTML, Script, and components written any language. Microsoft Visual ++( ) development system for Java contains high productivity Integrated Development Environment and collection integrated components create, test, tune, and deploy Java code multiple platforms. Microsoft Visual Studio( ) development system for Windows-based development suite developer tools enabling developers build components and applications using Visual Basic, Visual ++, Microsoft Visual FoxPro( ) database development system, Visual InterDev, and Visual ++. Developers can subscribe the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN)( ) information service and receive periodic updates via -ROMs, magazines, and several -line information services. Microsoft SQL Server. Microsoft SQL Server( ) scalable, high- performance database management system designed specifically for distributed client server computing. SQL Server has built- data replication, management tools, Internet integration, and online analytical processing (OLAP) aid the analysis information for reporting and data modeling. Its open system architecture provides Windows -based platform for delivering cost-effective information solutions. Consumer and Commerce The Consumer and Commerce Group supplies services and content consumers over the Internet and solutions businesses providing software and services conduct commerce the Internet. The core business products and services include MSN Internet Access; WebTV( ) Internet Service; MSN Portal and vertical properties; and MSN Commerce Platforms. The Microsoft Network. MSN Internet Access Web-based online service. MSN provides easy and inexpensive access for users wide range graphically rich online content. MSN Internet Access provides dial- Internet access, free Web-based -mail through MSN Hotmail, and Microsoft MSN Messenger Service. MSN Hotmail, one the largest -mail services with million members, provides members with -mail account they can access from any with Internet access and has localized versions French, German, and Japanese. MSN Messenger Service free Internet messaging service that enables users see when other users are online exchange instant messages. WebTV. WebTV Networks online service that enables consumers experience the Internet through their televisions via set-top terminals based WebTV( ) technologies. WebTV operates the WebTV Network Service and develops the WebTV Internet Terminal and WebTV Plus Receiver, which are available through the Company\' licensees. Future versions the set-top terminals will use the Windows operating system. MSN Portal. The MSN Portal business provides services the Internet, encompassing the home page well the vertical services. The vertical services provide online decision support infrastructure for end users many fields such automobiles, travel, finance, and home purchasing. Microsoft CarPoint( ) online automotive service provides objective information for new car purchases, including test-drive reviews, dealer invoices, surround videos, and interactive classified advertisements for used car purchasing. Microsoft Expedia( ) provides one-stop travel shopping and reservation services, providing reliable, real-time access schedule, pricing, and availability information for airlines, hotels, and major car rental companies. Microsoft HomeAdvisor( ) online real estate service complete guide the home-buying process and provides comprehensive tools for finding homes and loans the Internet. MSN MoneyCentral( ) personal finance online service free interactive personal finance resource track securities providing company and mutual fund research, investment finder, daily editorial and market summaries, -mail notifications and alerts, and access online trading through leading financial services firms. MSNBC Internet news service that complements the MSNBC Cable Network, providing -depth reporting and information wide range news topics, from local national international news. MSN Commerce. The MSN Commerce business sells platforms that power the MSN vertical services. Microsoft Passport platform technology that makes safer and easier for consumers access information and buy products and services online. Microsoft Passport allows consumers create single sign- , registration, and electronic wallet that can shared between all the sites that support Microsoft Passport. MSN LinkExchange, which the Company acquired November , provides services small businesses and Web site owners increase their online traffic and sales with free advertising banner ads their site exchange for placing ads other network sites. TransPoint end- -end system for Internet bill delivery and payment. TransPoint\' service, using existing payment systems, allows consumers access and pay their bills through the branded home banking services participating financial institutions and other consumer service providers. Joint Ventures. The Company has entered into joint venture arrangements take advantage creative talent and content from other organizations. Microsoft owns percent DreamWorks Interactive ., software company that develops interactive and multimedia products. DreamWorks SKG owns the remaining percent. Microsoft owns percent MSNBC Cable ., - hour cable news and information channel; and percent MSNBC Interactive News ., interactive online news service. National Broadcasting Company (NBC) owns the remaining percent these two joint ventures. Microsoft investor Transpoint ., joint venture between Microsoft, First Data Corporation, and Citibank. Home and Retail The Home and Retail Division develops products that are designed meet the needs consumers the home environment, most which are licensed and sold and through retail channels consumers. Major product categories include learning, productivity, personal finance, entertainment, and hardware peripherals. Learning. Learning titles include Microsoft Encarta( ) multimedia encyclopedia and Microsoft Bookshelf( ) -ROM reference library. The Encarta family products includes multimedia encyclopedia database with interactive information, interactive world atlas with three-dimensional maps, world English dictionary, and online version with monthly updates. Microsoft Bookshelf multimedia reference library that integrates dictionary, world atlas, world almanac, thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and two books quotations. Titles for children include Personal Tutor, comprehensive, grade-based learning suite with TutorAssist( ) learning technology that identifies child\' specific learning needs and offers instruction, and series products based the popular children\' book and television series, Scholastic\' The Magic School Bus( ). Productivity and Finance. Microsoft\' productivity offerings include Microsoft Works, integrated software program that contains basic word- processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that allows the easy exchange information from one tool another. Microsoft Money financial organization product that allows users computerize their finances and provides online home-banking services with numerous different banks the United States. The Works Suite provides comprehensive collection software, including Microsoft Works, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Money, Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia, Microsoft Graphics Studio Greetings, and Microsoft Expedia Streets. Entertainment. The Company offers line entertainment products. Microsoft Flight Simulator popular aircraft flight simulation product. Other games include Age Empires( ), Monster Truck Madness( ), racing simulation, Microsoft Baseball, Microsoft Golf, and other sports and action titles. The Microsoft Internet Gaming Zone gaming community the Internet allowing multiplayer gaming competitions Microsoft\' popular - ROM games and classic card, board, and puzzle games. Hardware Peripherals. The Company develops and markets several input devices including the Microsoft Mouse, hand-held pointing device that facilitates using the . The Microsoft IntelliMouse( ) pointing device ergonomically designed mouse with center-positioned wheel that provides scrolling and data zooming. The Company also markets several types keyboards including the Microsoft Natural( ) keyboard, ergonomically designed keyboard. Microsoft sells various Microsoft SideWinder( ) game controllers and force feedback joysticks with realistic performance technology use with games. ActiMates( ) Interactive Barney( ), Authur( ), .( ), and Teletubbies( ) are two-way interactive, talking and moving, wireless plush character peripherals for young children that operate via programming from -ROM ( mode), VHC ( mode), and -board ROM chip (stand-alone mode). Microsoft Press Microsoft Press offers comprehensive learning and training resources help new users, power users, and professionals get the most from Microsoft technology through books, CDs, self-paced training kits, and videos that are created accommodate different learning styles and preferences. Microsoft Press( ) books are authored professional and technical writers, both Microsoft employees and independent authors. Microsoft Press contracts with independent commercial printer for the printing its books. Publisher\' Resources, Inc. acts the Company\' main fulfillment house the United States, maintaining the majority the inventory Microsoft Press books. Books are marketed independent sales representatives and Microsoft Press sales personnel. Internationally, Microsoft Press has numerous agreements with publishers for the worldwide distribution its books. Microsoft Press has granted publisher England the right distribute English language versions its books all countries except the United States, Canada, Latin America, and certain Asian countries. most cases, Microsoft Press provides each publisher with book\' manuscript, and the publisher arranges for its translation and the printing, marketing, and distribution the translated version. Customer Sales Groups The Company has several customer sales groups that work with their customers and partners provide sales and marketing activities. The enterprise sales group has responsibility for sales and marketing activities that target organizational customer segments working directly with these organizations create and support enterprise-wide, mission-critical solutions for business computing needs. The group divided into the following customer selling teams: depth and breadth enterprise sales, small and medium enterprise sales, and education sales. The enterprise sales group also provides seminars and forums familiarize enterprises with technology issues and solutions. The depth and breadth enterprise sales group creates the depth and breadth licensing programs, drives systemic improvements for enterprise customers, and manages key enterprise partners, including USWeb, EDS, & , Computer Sciences Corporation, and others. The small and medium enterprise customer group has responsibility for activities that target groups users small and medium organizations. The group works with channel partners such distributors, aggregators, value-added resellers, and Solution Providers provide complete business solutions. The group\' sales and marketing activities include managing technical training programs for Solution Providers (described below) and channel resellers and supporting and providing seminars, events, and sales training for channel partners. The small and medium enterprise customer group also runs the Microsoft Certified Professional program, which ensures the quality Microsoft training for individuals and corporations. The education customer group works with key education institutions and other industry partners provide programs and technology tools that help them expand and enhance learning opportunities for students. The education customer group has four primary areas, including higher education, - , non-profit organizations, and management the education channel and resellers. The business solutions customer group targets key line business partners, including corporate developers and independent software vendors (ISVs) who build business applications with development platform based Microsoft Windows and BackOffice architecture. The group\' sales and marketing activities include providing industry-specific technical training, seminars, and events for ISVs. The business solutions customer group also focuses vertical and horizontal industries and their associated software applications. key focus the group Microsoft Developer products, including Developer Tools, Microsoft SQL Server, and Microsoft Windows DNA Architecture. The network solutions customer group responsible for introducing the Company\' products and technologies public infrastructure owners and Internet Content Providers (ICPs). The customer group also focuses embedded and dedicated systems. Infrastructure owners include network operators (telephone companies, cable companies, Internet service providers, etc.) who build, own, and operate the public networks. The consumer customer group has responsibility for activities that target end users that make individual buying decisions for home PCs. Most sales and marketing activities aimed end-user customers are performed this group, including developing and administering reseller relationships; reseller sales terms and conditions; channel marketing and promotions; end-user marketing programs; and seminars, events, and sales training for resellers. The customer group\' sub-segments include direct marketing resellers and retailers. Product Development The software industry characterized extremely rapid technological change, which requires constant attention computing technology trends, shifting consumer demand, and rapid product innovation. The pace change accelerating, the computing needs our customers move beyond the toward intelligent devices and appliances. Most the Company\' software products are developed internally. The Company also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees third-party development and localization certain products. Internal development enables Microsoft maintain closer technical control over the products and gives the Company the freedom designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. The Company has created substantial body proprietary development tools and has evolved development methodologies for creating and enhancing its products. These tools and methodologies are also designed simplify product\' portability among different operating systems, microprocessors, computing devices. Product documentation generally created internally. The Company believes that crucial factor the success new product getting market quickly respond new user needs advances intelligent devices, PCs, servers, and the Internet, without compromising product quality. The Company strives become informed the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, Microsoft provides software vendors range development, training, testing resources, and guidelines for developing applications software vendors. best serve the needs users around the world, Microsoft "localizes" many its products reflect local languages and conventions and improve the quality and usability the product international markets. Localizing product might require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Japanese versions, for example, all user messages and documentation are Japanese with monetary references the Japanese yen. Various Microsoft products have been localized into more than languages. During fiscal years , , and , the Company spent $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively, product research and development activities. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years, excluding funding joint venture activity. The Company committed continue high expenditures for research and product development. Manufacturing Microsoft contracts out most its manufacturing activity third parties. Outside manufacturers produce various retail software packaged products and hardware peripherals. There are other custom manufacturers Microsoft could use the event outsourced manufacturing becomes unavailable from current vendors. The Company\' remaining manufacturing facilities are located Puerto Rico and Ireland. The Irish facility and the Puerto Rico facilities manufacture - ROMs. Microsoft outsources its manufacturing packaged products. Quality control tests are performed purchased parts, -ROMs, and other products. The chief materials and components used Microsoft products include -ROMs, books, and multicolor printed materials. The Company often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. The Company has multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components. The Company\' sales mix has shifted OEM and organizational licenses from packaged products. Also, online distribution software increasing. Operations Microsoft manages all product fulfillment, licensing, and logistics services. The Company has regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and the Greater Seattle area. The regional centers support all operations activities, including information processing, vendor management, logistics, and related supporting functions geographical regions. The regional center Dublin, Ireland supports the European, African, and Middle East regions, the center Singapore supports the Asia Pacific region, and the center the Greater Seattle area supports North and South America. The Company established Microsoft Licensing Incorporated (MSLI) Reno, Nevada, wholly owned subsidiary, which manages the Company\' OEM and certain organizational licensing operations. Marketing and Distribution The Company\' sales and marketing group seeks build long-term relationships with customers Microsoft products. The OEM sales group includes the sales force that works with original equipment manufacturers that preinstall Microsoft software their PCs. addition the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing organizations: the South Pacific and Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; and Asia. Finished Goods Channels Distributors and Resellers. The Company licenses and sells its products the finished goods channels primarily and through independent non-exclusive distributors and resellers. Distributors include Inacom, Ingram Micro, SoftBank, Tech Data, and Merisel. Resellers include Software Spectrum, Corporate Software & Technology, CompUSA, Software House International, Softmart, ASAP Software Express, and Best Buy. Microsoft has network field sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support. Enterprise Accounts. The Microsoft Select program offers flexible software acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially customized meet the needs large multinational organizations. Targeted audiences include technology specialists and influential end users large enterprises. Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with large account resellers. The Microsoft Open program licensing program that targeted for small and medium size organizations. available through the reseller channel and offers discounts based initial purchase volumes. The Microsoft Enterprise Agreement program licensing program designed provide flexible licensing and service solution tailored customers making long- term licensing commitment. The agreements are designed increase customer satisfaction simplifying license administration, payment terms, and the contract process. Solution Providers. Microsoft\' Solution Providers program comprehensive support relationship with independent organizations that provide network and system integration, custom development, training, and technical support for business computing solutions. The program supports system integrators, value- added resellers (VARs), consultants, custom application developers, solution developers, Internet service and hosting organizations, independent content providers, and site builders (companies that build Web sites for other companies), well technical support and training organizations. Under this business collaboration strategy, the Company provides sales and product information, development services, early access Microsoft products, and customer support tools, including priority telephone support, education, and business development support. ensure high-quality technical services for the Company\' products, Microsoft Solution Providers are required have Microsoft-certified professionals staff. Microsoft Direct Access comprehensive and open program that allows independent technology providers actively work with Microsoft through the Microsoft Direct Access program online, quarterly briefings, training, and action packs. Certified Professionals. Microsoft receives certification fees through the Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) program, program that provides credentials for those who have demonstrated -depth knowledge least one Microsoft product. become MCP, candidate must pass certification exam that provides valid and reliable measure technical proficiency and expertise. MCP exams are developed with the input professionals the industry and reflect how Microsoft products are used organizations throughout the world. The exams are administered independent organizations more than , testing centers around the world. MCPs receive access technical and product information through MCP Web site, MSDN Online Certified Membership, and invitations conferences, technical training sessions, and special events. Candidates may pass additional Microsoft certification exams further qualify their skills with Microsoft BackOffice products, development tools, and desktop applications. Consulting Services. Microsoft Consulting Services assists customers deploying and using the Company\' computer operating systems, applications, and communications products. The group works with Solution Providers and helps create enterprise-wide computing solutions for large corporate accounts. Microsoft Consulting Services also works with technology solutions providers enable them offer wide range Microsoft product-related services backed high levels technical skill and knowledge. International Sales Sites. The Company has established marketing and support subsidiaries more than countries. Product generally delivered the Company\' owned outsourced manufacturing operations, which are located the geographical region which the product was sold. organizing geographically, the Company able provide service international channel customers and access Microsoft professionals located the same region serve their specific needs. Subsidiaries have the responsibility for selling products customers, managing licensing programs, and providing support all types customers based international countries. Notes Financial Statements--(see Item ) describe foreign operations and export sales. The Company\' international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are subject certain risks common foreign operations general, such governmental regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Microsoft hedges portion its foreign exchange risk. Product Support The Company provides product support coverage options aligned the customer segments, partner segments, and communities. Coverage options range from standard -charge toll telephone support fee-based offerings providing unlimited number telephone and electronic technical support for all Microsoft products hours per day, days per week. Support offerings include the Alliance program, tailored for large enterprises running mission- critical applications Microsoft platforms; the Premier program for enterprises and technical account managers needing regular managed support; the Professional program for small organizations, developers, OEMs, and Microsoft Certified Solution Providers ranging from small organizations large-account resellers (LARs); and the Personal program for home users, which provides free online self-help resources and phone support. Users have access troubleshooting "wizards" and Microsoft\' KnowledgeBase, online library thousands technical articles that updated regularly with useful information regarding Microsoft products. Additionally, several support offerings include Microsoft TechNet and Microsoft Developer Network information subscription services. Support personnel are located various sites the United States and around the world. Certain support also supplied qualified third-party support organizations. supplement alternative direct support, the Company enhances the third-party support channel providing Microsoft Certified Solution Providers with education, training, tools, and support. Microsoft Certified Solution Providers include Authorized Training Centers, which offer advanced product education and certification Microsoft products; and Authorized Support Centers, which provide wide spectrum multinational support, multi-vendor support, and integration services. OEM Channel Microsoft operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right distribute copies the Company\' products with their computing devices, principally PCs. The Company also markets and licenses certain desktop applications, hardware peripherals, and consumer software programs OEMs under similar arrangements. almost all cases, the products are distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering one more its products with virtually all the major OEMs, including, Acer, Actebis, Compaq, Dell, Fujitsu ICL, Gateway , Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Micron, NEC, Packard Bell NEC, Samsung, Siemens, Toshiba, and Vobis. substantial amount OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume customized vendors. Advertising The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms. Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials are targeted various end-user segments. The Company uses broad consumer media (television, radio, the Internet, and business publications) and trade publications. Microsoft has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs are reimbursed for certain advertising expenditures. Customers The Company\' customers include consumers, small and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, educational institutions, ISPs, application developers, and OEMs. Most consumers Microsoft products are individuals businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and home. The consumers and organizations obtain Microsoft products primarily through resellers and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their computing hardware. Notes Financial Statements (see Item ) quantify customers that represent more than % the Company\' revenue. The Company\' practice ship its products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from its customers and, consequently, backlog not significant. Competition The software business intensely competitive and subject extremely rapid technological change. The Company faced with the possibility paradigm shifts from -based applications server-based applications Web-based application hosting services, from proprietary software open source software, and from PCs Internet-based devices. number Microsoft\' most significant competitors, including IBM, Sun Microsystems, Oracle, and AOL (Netscape), are collaborating with one another various initiatives directed competing with Microsoft. These initiatives relate part efforts move software from individual PCs centrally managed servers, which would present significant challenges the Company\' historical business model. Collaborative efforts also include the development new platform technologies that are intended replicate much the value Microsoft Windows operating systems. New computing form factors, including non- information devices, are gaining popularity and competing with PCs running Microsoft\' software products. Microsoft faces formidable competition these new areas and all areas its current business activity, including competition from many companies much larger than Microsoft. The rapid pace technological change, particularly the area Internet platforms and services, continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. The Company also faces relentless competition from software pirates who unlawfully copy and distribute Microsoft\' copyrighted software products, depriving the Company large amounts revenue annual basis. Operating Systems. Microsoft\' operating system products face substantial competition from wide variety companies. Competitors such IBM, Apple Computer, Compaq, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, and others are vertically integrated both software development and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they preinstall computers their own manufacture. Many these operating system software products are also licensed third-party OEMs for preinstallation their computers. Microsoft\' operating system products compete with UNIX-based operating systems from wide range companies, including IBM, & , Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, The Santa Cruz Operation, and others. Variants UNIX run wide variety computer platforms and have gained increasing acceptance desktop operating systems. With increased attention toward open-source software, the Linux operating system has gained increasing acceptance. Several computer manufacturers preinstall Linux PCs and many leading software developers have written applications that run Linux. technology increasingly moves toward connectivity and communications, Microsoft\' operating system products face increased competition from network server operating systems such Novell\' NetWare, Banyan\' Vines, the many variants UNIX, IBM\' , "middleware" products such IBM\' Lotus Notes, and intranet servers from Apache, AOL (Netscape), IBM, Sun Microsystems, and others. Microsoft Windows operating systems are also threatened alternative platforms such those based Internet browsing software and Java technology promoted AOL and Sun Microsystems. Business Systems. The Company competes the business providing enterprise-wide computing solutions with several competitors who enjoy larger share sales and larger installed bases. Many companies offer operating system software for mainframes and midrange computers, including IBM, Hewlett-Packard, and Sun Microsystems. Since legacy business systems are typically support-intensive, these competitors also offer substantial support services. Software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Oracle, IBM, Computer Associates, Sybase, and Informix. There are also several software vendors who offer connectivity servers. mentioned above, there are numerous companies and organizations that offer Internet and intranet server software, that compete against the Company\' business systems. Additionally, IBM has large installed base Lotus Notes and :Mail, both which compete with the Company\' collaboration and -mail products. Desktop Applications. The Company\' competitors include many software application vendors, such IBM (Lotus), Oracle, Apple (Filemaker, Inc.), Sun Microsystems, Corel, Qualcomm, and local application developers Europe and Asia. IBM and Corel have large installed bases with their spreadsheet and word-processor products, respectively, and both have aggressive pricing strategies. Also, IBM and Apple preinstall certain their application software products various models their PCs, competing directly with Microsoft\' desktop application software. Additionally, Web-based application hosting services provide alternative -based applications such Microsoft Office. Developer Tools. The Company\' developer products compete against offerings from Borland, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Sybase, Symantec, and other companies. Consumer Platforms. wide variety companies develop operating systems for information appliances, including Apple, Motorola, 3Com, Psion Software, Sun Microsystems, Microworkz, , Inc., WindRiver, Symbian and others. The Company\' WebTV offerings and other multimedia consumer products face competitors such Sun Microsystems, Oracle, Liberate Technologies, NetChannel, and others. enormous range companies, including media conglomerates, telephone companies, cable companies, retailers, hardware manufacturers, and software developers, are competing make interactive services widely available the home. -Commerce. Microsoft competes with many companies the -commerce business and its major components, including business- -consumer, business- -business, procurement, and supply chain integration. the development and marketing Internet and intranet solutions, major commerce software competitors provide many different ranges products and solutions that compete with Microsoft, including IBM, Oracle, AOL (Netscape), Sun Microsystems, Broadvision, and many others. Online Services. Microsoft\' online services network, MSN, faces formidable competition from AOL (including its CompuServe unit), & , and other traditional online services well vast array Web sites and portals that offer content all types and email, calendaring, chat, and search and shopping services, among other things. addition, the ease entry into Internet services has allowed numerous Web-based service companies build significant businesses areas such -mail, electronic commerce, Web search engines, directories, and information numerous types. Competitors include AOL, Yahoo, Excite, Lycos, Infoseek, AltaVista, and many others. News Services. The Company\' MSNBC joint ventures face formidable competition from other -hour cable and Internet news organizations such CNN, CNN Headline News, and Fox News Network. MSNBC also competes with traditional news media such newspapers, magazines, and broadcast . Home and Retail. The Company\' Home and Retail division faces many smaller but focused and branded competitors, particularly the areas hardware, learning, and entertainment. Consolidation this area software development has made certain competitors even stronger. Competitors include Intuit, Electronic Arts, Mattel (The Learning Company), Hasbro, Logitech, Voyager, Cendant, and Dorling Kindersley. Still other competitors own branded content, such Disney and Lucas Arts. Additionally, -based games are increasingly competing head- -head against games created for proprietary systems such Nintendo, Sony PlayStation, and Sega. Input devices face substantial competition from computer manufacturers, since computers are typically sold with keyboard and mouse, and other manufacturers these devices. The Company\' competitive position may adversely affected one more these factors the future, particularly view the fast pace technological change the computing industry. Employees June , , the Company employed , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales, marketing, and support, , manufacturing and distribution, and , finance and administration. Microsoft\' success highly dependent its ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. date, the Company believes has been successful its efforts recruit qualified employees, but there assurance that will continue successful the future. None the Company\' employees subject collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes relations with its employees are excellent. Item . Properties The Company\' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington. There are two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company recently completed the construction two office buildings comprising approximately , square feet space and constructing building with approximately , square feet space. This site will occupied the winter . The Company owns million square feet its corporate campus. The Company leases many buildings the Puget Sound Region. The Company recently leased four buildings with approximately , square feet space, which will occupied the fall . The Company leases many sites domestically. The Company entered into build- -suit lease agreement the San Francisco, California Bay Area. This campus, when complete, will approximately , square feet. scheduled open the fall . The Company\' European operations center and localization division consist , square-foot campus situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland facilities are partially owned the Company. the United Kingdom, the Company executed sale leaseback three buildings that total , square feet. Les Ulis, France, the Company executed sale leaseback , square-foot office building. The Company leases , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Company leases , square-foot facility Singapore for its Asia Pacific operations center. addition, the Company leases many other sites around the world. The Company\' facilities are fully used for current operations all segments and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. Item . Legal Proceedings The information set forth Notes Financial Statements--Contingencies page - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . Executive Officers the Registrant The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company ---- --- ------------------------- William . Gates......... Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer........ President Robert . Herbold........ Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer Richard Belluzzo......... Group Vice President, Consumer and Commerce Frank . (Pete) Higgins.. Group Vice President Paul . Maritz........... Group Vice President, Developer Jeffrey . Raikes........ Group Vice President, Sales and Support James . Allchin......... Senior Vice President, Platforms Orlando Ayala Lozano..... Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas Bradley . Chase......... Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce John . DeVaan........... Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce Joachim Kempin........... Senior Vice President, OEM Sales Michel Lacombe........... Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Gregory . Maffei........ Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Robert . Muglia......... Senior Vice President, Business Productivity Craig Mundie............. Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy William . Neukom........ Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Bernard . Vergnes....... Senior Vice President; Chairman, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa . Gates -founded Microsoft and has been its Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer since the original partnership was incorporated . . Ballmer was named President July and had been Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & \' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Belluzzo joined Microsoft Group Vice President, Consumer and Commence September . . Belluzzo had been Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Silicon Graphics, Inc. since January . Prior his employment Silicon Graphics, Inc., Belluzzo was employed the Hewlett-Packard Company for twenty-two years, serving since Executive Vice President and General Manager the computer organization. From , . Belluzzo was General Manager the Computer Products Organization. . Higgins leave from Microsoft. . Higgins was named Group Vice President, Interactive Media Group October . was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May and Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since . . Higgins joined Microsoft . . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Developer March . had been Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications since October and before holding that position was Group Vice President, Platforms since May . . Maritz had been Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy since November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Support July . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Platforms March . had been Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February . was previously Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division since November and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Ayala was named Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas February . had been Vice President the developing markets Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. joined Microsoft May Senior Director the Latin America Region. . Chase was named Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce September . . Chase had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . was Vice President, Developer Relations and Windows Marketing. . Chase joined Microsoft July . . DeVaan was named Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce September . . DeVaan had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications since . . DeVaan joined Microsoft . . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM Sales August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin joined Microsoft . . Lacombe President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa. was named Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa February . had been President, Microsoft Europe and Senior Vice President, Microsoft since July . had been Vice President, Europe since September and Vice President, End User Customer Unit, Europe since April . . Lacombe had been Regional Director Southern Europe from May . . Lacombe joined Microsoft . . Maffei was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration March . was named Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer July . . Maffei was named Vice President, Corporate Development July and Treasurer April . joined Microsoft Director, Business Development and Investments. . Muglia Senior Vice President, Business Productivity. was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools February . had been Vice President, Server Applications since and was Vice President, Developer Tools since . joined Microsoft January . . Mundie Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy. was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology December . . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined Microsoft Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs. . Vergnes Senior Vice President and Chairman, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa. was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes joined Microsoft . PART Item . Market for Registrant\' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Reference also made the information sales put warrants described the notes financial statements incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . All such transactions are exempt from registration under Section ( ) the Securities Act . Each transaction was privately negotiated and each offeree and purchaser was accredited investor qualified institutional buyer. public offering public solicitation was used the registrant the placement these securities. During the quarter, the Company issued aggregate , its common shares pursuant the following transactions: ( ) the acquisition the Company certain assets Bruce Carver and Associates, Inc. and Chris . Jones and Associates Inc., owned two shareholders, ( ) the merger exchange for the outstanding capital shares Jump Networks, Inc., owned six shareholders, and (iii) the merger exchange for the outstanding capital shares OmniBrowse, Inc., owned five shareholders. All the Microsoft common shares issued these transactions were issued pursuant exemption from the registration requirements the Securities Act , amended (the " Act"), under Section ( ) the Act. These sales were made without general solicitation advertising. The Company has filed Registration Statement form - covering the resale such securities. All net proceeds from the sale such securities will the selling shareholders who offered and sell their shares. The Company has not received and will not receive any proceeds from the sale these common shares other than the assets and liabilities the acquired companies. Item . Selected Financial Data The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition The information set forth page - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The following financial statements and supplementary data for the Company and independent auditors\' report set forth pages and - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit .. Income Statements for the three years ended June , . Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June , . Balance Sheets June , and . Stockholders\' Equity Statements for the three years ended June , . Notes Financial Statements. Independent Auditors\' Report Item . Changes and Disagreements With Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. PART III Item . Directors the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Item . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. The information Notes Financial Statements--Operational Transactions page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages and - Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Gregory . Maffei __________________________________ Gregory . Maffei Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title --------- ----- / / William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors ___________________________________________ and Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / Paul . Allen Director ___________________________________________ Paul . Allen Director ___________________________________________ Jill . Barad / / Richard . Hackborn Director ___________________________________________ Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director ___________________________________________ David . Marquardt / / . . Reed, . Director ___________________________________________ . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director ___________________________________________ Jon . Shirley / / Gregory . Maffei Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; ___________________________________________ Chief Financial Officer Gregory . Maffei (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': "Properties The Company' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington. There are two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company recently completed the construction two office buildings comprising approximately , square feet space and constructing building with approximately , square feet space. This site will occupied the winter . The Company owns million square feet its corporate campus. The Company leases many buildings the Puget Sound Region. The Company recently leased four buildings with approximately , square feet space, which will occupied the fall . The Company leases many sites domestically. The Company entered into build- -suit lease agreement the San Francisco, California Bay Area. This campus, when complete, will approximately , square feet. scheduled open the fall . The Company' European operations center and localization division consist , square-foot campus situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland facilities are partially owned the Company. the United Kingdom, the Company executed sale leaseback three buildings that total , square feet. Les Ulis, France, the Company executed sale leaseback , square-foot office building. The Company leases , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Company leases , square-foot facility Singapore for its Asia Pacific operations center. addition, the Company leases many other sites around the world. The Company' facilities are fully used for current operations all segments and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ", 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The information set forth Notes Financial Statements--Contingencies page - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ', 'item 4. ': "Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . Executive Officers the Registrant The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company ---- --- ------------------------- William . Gates......... Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer........ President Robert . Herbold........ Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer Richard Belluzzo......... Group Vice President, Consumer and Commerce Frank . (Pete) Higgins.. Group Vice President Paul . Maritz........... Group Vice President, Developer Jeffrey . Raikes........ Group Vice President, Sales and Support James . Allchin......... Senior Vice President, Platforms Orlando Ayala Lozano..... Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas Bradley . Chase......... Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce John . DeVaan........... Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce Joachim Kempin........... Senior Vice President, OEM Sales Michel Lacombe........... Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa Gregory . Maffei........ Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Robert . Muglia......... Senior Vice President, Business Productivity Craig Mundie............. Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy William . Neukom........ Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Bernard . Vergnes....... Senior Vice President; Chairman, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa . Gates -founded Microsoft and has been its Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer since the original partnership was incorporated . . Ballmer was named President July and had been Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & ' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Belluzzo joined Microsoft Group Vice President, Consumer and Commence September . . Belluzzo had been Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Silicon Graphics, Inc. since January . Prior his employment Silicon Graphics, Inc., Belluzzo was employed the Hewlett-Packard Company for twenty-two years, serving since Executive Vice President and General Manager the computer organization. From , . Belluzzo was General Manager the Computer Products Organization. . Higgins leave from Microsoft. . Higgins was named Group Vice President, Interactive Media Group October . was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May and Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since . . Higgins joined Microsoft . . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Developer March . had been Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications since October and before holding that position was Group Vice President, Platforms since May . . Maritz had been Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy since November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Support July . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Platforms March . had been Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February . was previously Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division since November and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Ayala was named Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas February . had been Vice President the developing markets Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. joined Microsoft May Senior Director the Latin America Region. . Chase was named Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce September . . Chase had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . was Vice President, Developer Relations and Windows Marketing. . Chase joined Microsoft July . . DeVaan was named Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce September . . DeVaan had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications since . . DeVaan joined Microsoft . . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM Sales August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin joined Microsoft . . Lacombe President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa. was named Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa February . had been President, Microsoft Europe and Senior Vice President, Microsoft since July . had been Vice President, Europe since September and Vice President, End User Customer Unit, Europe since April . . Lacombe had been Regional Director Southern Europe from May . . Lacombe joined Microsoft . . Maffei was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration March . was named Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer July . . Maffei was named Vice President, Corporate Development July and Treasurer April . joined Microsoft Director, Business Development and Investments. . Muglia Senior Vice President, Business Productivity. was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools February . had been Vice President, Server Applications since and was Vice President, Developer Tools since . joined Microsoft January . . Mundie Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy. was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology December . . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined Microsoft Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs. . Vergnes Senior Vice President and Chairman, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa. was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes joined Microsoft . PART ", 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Reference also made the information sales put warrants described the notes financial statements incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . All such transactions are exempt from registration under Section ( ) the Securities Act . Each transaction was privately negotiated and each offeree and purchaser was accredited investor qualified institutional buyer. public offering public solicitation was used the registrant the placement these securities. During the quarter, the Company issued aggregate , its common shares pursuant the following transactions: ( ) the acquisition the Company certain assets Bruce Carver and Associates, Inc. and Chris . Jones and Associates Inc., owned two shareholders, ( ) the merger exchange for the outstanding capital shares Jump Networks, Inc., owned six shareholders, and (iii) the merger exchange for the outstanding capital shares OmniBrowse, Inc., owned five shareholders. All the Microsoft common shares issued these transactions were issued pursuant exemption from the registration requirements the Securities Act , amended (the " Act"), under Section ( ) the Act. These sales were made without general solicitation advertising. The Company has filed Registration Statement form - covering the resale such securities. All net proceeds from the sale such securities will the selling shareholders who offered and sell their shares. The Company has not received and will not receive any proceeds from the sale these common shares other than the assets and liabilities the acquired companies. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ', 'item 7. ': "Management' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition The information set forth page - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ", 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ', 'item 8. ': "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The following financial statements and supplementary data for the Company and independent auditors' report set forth pages and - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit .. Income Statements for the three years ended June , . Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June , . Balance Sheets June , and . Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June , . Notes Financial Statements. Independent Auditors' Report ", 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements With Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. PART III Item . Directors the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Item . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. The information Notes Financial Statements--Operational Transactions page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages and - Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Gregory . Maffei __________________________________ Gregory . Maffei Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title --------- ----- / / William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors ___________________________________________ and Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / Paul . Allen Director ___________________________________________ Paul . Allen Director ___________________________________________ Jill . Barad / / Richard . Hackborn Director ___________________________________________ Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director ___________________________________________ David . Marquardt / / . . Reed, . Director ___________________________________________ . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director ___________________________________________ Jon . Shirley / / Gregory . Maffei Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; ___________________________________________ Chief Financial Officer Gregory . Maffei (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. The information Notes Financial Statements--Operational Transactions page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . PART ', 'item 14. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages and - Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Gregory . Maffei __________________________________ Gregory . Maffei Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . Signature Title --------- ----- / / William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors ___________________________________________ and Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / Paul . Allen Director ___________________________________________ Paul . Allen Director ___________________________________________ Jill . Barad / / Richard . Hackborn Director ___________________________________________ Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director ___________________________________________ David . Marquardt / / . . Reed, . Director ___________________________________________ . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director ___________________________________________ Jon . Shirley / / Gregory . Maffei Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; ___________________________________________ Chief Financial Officer Gregory . Maffei (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}