{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Our mission enable people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. work achieve our mission through technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate. Since our founding , have been leader this transformation. develop and market software, services, and solutions that believe deliver new opportunity, convenience, and value people\x92 lives. business throughout the world and have offices more than countries. generate revenue developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products for many computing devices. Our software products include operating systems for servers, personal computers, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solution applications; high-performance computing applications, and software development tools. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify computer system integrators and developers. sell the Xbox video game console and games, games, and peripherals. Online offerings and information are delivered through our Windows Live, Office Live, and MSN portals and channels. also research and develop advanced technologies for future software products. believe that delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our integrated software platform the key meeting our customers\x92 needs and our future growth. believe that over the past few years have laid the foundation for long-term growth delivering innovative new products, creating opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction, putting many our most significant legal challenges behind , and improving our internal processes. Our focus build this foundation continuing innovate our integrated software platform, delivering compelling value propositions customers, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and continuing focus internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability. Our research and development facilities are located primarily Redmond, Washington. also have smaller research facilities other parts the United States and around the world, including, but not limited , China, Denmark, England, India, Ireland, and Israel. OPERATING SEGMENTS Our segments provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses. The segments provide framework for the alignment strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and for the timely and rational allocation development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. The segments also help focus strategic planning efforts key objectives and initiatives across our businesses. PAGE Part Item Due our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments. Therefore, these segments are not designed measure operating income loss that directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and motivate shared effort. Segments should not viewed discrete easily separable businesses. For the fiscal years covered this filing, our seven segments were: Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. See Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements for financial information regarding segment reporting. July , , announced change our operating segments reflecting the culmination the business realignment announced September . These changes will effective for fiscal year ; the seven segments discussed this section are presented the way internally managed and monitored performance the business group level fiscal year , , and . Client Client has overall responsibility for the technical architecture, engineering and product delivery our Windows product family, and also responsible for our relationships with personal computer manufacturers, including multinational and regional original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94). The segment includes sales and marketing expenses for the Windows client operating system and product development efforts for the Windows platform. Client revenue growth correlated with the growth purchases personal computers from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. The next generation the Windows operating system, Windows Vista, under development. This development phase represents major investment that expect will result significantly more manageable and powerful operating system than previously released Microsoft. Windows Vista will include advances security, digital media, user interfaces, and other areas that will enhance the user and developer experience. Products: Windows Professional and Home; Media Center Edition; Tablet Edition; and other standard Windows operating systems. Competition Client faces strong competition from well-established companies with differing approaches the market. Competing commercial software products, including variants Unix, are supplied competitors such Apple Computer, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Sun Microsystems. The Linux operating system, which also derived from Unix and available without payment under General Public License, has gained some acceptance competitive pressures lead OEMs reduce costs. The Windows operating system also faces competition from alternative platforms and new devices that may reduce consumer demand for traditional personal computers. Competitors such Mozilla offer software that competes with the Internet Explorer Web browsing capabilities Windows products. Apple Computer, Real Networks, and others compete with Windows Media Player. Our operating system products compete effectively delivering innovative software, familiar, easy- -use interface, compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, and the largest support network for any operating system. Server and Tools Server and Tools develops and markets Windows Server products, including Windows Server operating systems. Windows Server products are integrated server infrastructure software that are designed support end- -end software applications and tools built the Windows Server operating system. Windows Server products include the server platform, operations, security, applications and collaboration software. The segment also builds standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers and project managers. offer broad range consulting services and provide product support services. The segment also provides training and certification developers and information technology professionals about our Server and platform products. Server and Tools also includes the Enterprise Partner Group, which responsible for sales, partner management and partner programs for medium and large organizations; and the Public Sector sales and marketing organization. PAGE Part Item Approximately half Server revenue comes from multi-year licensing agreements, one third purchased through fully packaged product and transactional volume licensing programs, and approximately % comes from licenses sold OEMs. Approximately % revenue comes from consulting and product support services. Products and Services: Windows Server operating system; Microsoft SQL Server; Exchange Server; Microsoft Consulting Services; product support services; Visual Studio; System Center products; Forefront security family products; and Biz Talk Server, among others. Competition Our server operating system products face intense competition from wide variety server operating systems and server applications, offered companies with variety market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Sun Microsystems offer their own variant Unix preinstalled server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system. IBM\x92 endorsement Linux has aided the acceptance Linux alternative Unix and Windows server operating systems. Linux\x92 competitive position has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many leading commercial software developers and non-commercial software developers. number companies supply versions Linux, including Novell and Red Hat. compete the business providing enterprise-wide computing solutions with several companies that provide solutions and middleware technology platforms. IBM and Sun Microsystems lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition (J2EE). Commercial software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include , IBM, and Oracle. Numerous commercial software vendors offer competing commercial software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, and -business servers. System Center competes with BMC, , and IBM the Management infrastructures, while Forefront Security competes with McAfee, Symantec, and Trend Micro protecting both client and server applications. addition, IBM has large installed base Lotus Notes and :Mail, both which compete with our collaboration and -mail products. Non-commercial software products, including the widely-deployed Apache Web Server, also compete with our solutions. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, BEA Systems, Borland, IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, and other companies. believe that our server products provide customers with advantages innovation, performance, total costs ownership, and productivity, delivering superior applications development tools and development environment, compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Information Worker Information Worker consists the Microsoft Office system programs, services, and software solutions designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. The Office system offerings generate over % Information Worker revenue. Revenue growth depends our ability add value the core Office product set and continue expand our product offerings other information worker areas such enterprise content management, collaboration, unified messaging, and business intelligence. Approximately % Information Worker revenue has come from multi-year license agreements with large enterprises. Revenues from these licenses generally depend upon the number information workers licensed enterprise. Revenue from this category agreements therefore relatively independent the number PCs sold given year. Consequently, general employment levels, particularly North America and Europe, significantly affect Information Worker revenue. Approximately % Information Worker revenue comes from new licenses acquired through fully packaged product and volume licensing programs individual consumers and enterprises all sizes. Most this revenue sensitive information technology budgets, which often depend general economic conditions. The remaining approximately % Information Worker revenue comes from licenses OEMs for new PCs and affected the level shipments. The next wave our flagship product, the Microsoft Office system, currently under development. Products: Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Microsoft Visio; SharePoint Portal Server CAL; Microsoft Live Meeting; One Note; and Office Communication Server. PAGE Part Item Competition Competitors the Microsoft Office system include many software application vendors such Apple, Corel, Google, IBM, Novell, Oracle, Red Hat, Sun Microsystems, and local application developers Europe and Asia. IBM (Smartsuite) and Corel (WordPerfect Suite) have measurable installed bases with their office productivity products. Apple may distribute certain their application software products with various models their PCs. The OpenOffice org project provides freely downloadable cross-platform application that also has been adapted various commercial software vendors sell under their brands, including IBM, Novell, Red Hat, and Sun. Corel\x92 suite and many local software suites around the world are aggressively priced for OEMs preinstall low-priced PCs. addition traditional client-side applications, Web-based offerings such AjaxWrite, gOffice, iNetOffice, SimDesk, ThinkFree, wikiCalc, other small projects competing with individual applications, can also provide alternative Microsoft Office system products. Google has announced spreadsheet and word processing applications web-based offerings and also provides enterprise search offering that competes with SharePoint and our new enterprise search product. IBM has many different points competition with Office system products with its Notes and Workplace offerings. continue respond market demand for additional functionality and products, will compete with additional vendors, most notably enterprise content management, collaboration tools, unified messaging, and business intelligence. These competitors include WebEx, and number business intelligence vendors such Business Objects, Cognos, and Hyperion. Microsoft Business Solutions Microsoft Business Solutions responsible for Microsoft Dynamics brand business applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations and divisions global enterprises. offers financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications. Revenue derived from software and services sales, with software sales representing large majority total revenue. Software revenues include both new software licenses and enhancement plans, which provide customers with future software upgrades and -line training over the period the plan. The solutions are delivered through worldwide network channel partners and independent software vendors that provide services, additional related software, and local support. Products: Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics CRM; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics NAV; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics Retail Management System; Microsoft Partner Program; and Microsoft Office Small Business Accounting. Competition Our competition varies based upon the size and geographic location the customer for whom are competing. compete with well-known vendors such Intuit and Sage the market focused providing solutions for small and mid-sized businesses. The market for large organizations and divisions global enterprises continues intensely competitive with small number primary vendors including Oracle and SAP. Additionally, these large enterprise-focused vendors are repositioning some their business applications focus small and mid-sized businesses. believe our products compete effectively with these vendors based our strategy providing integrated, adaptable solutions that work like and with Microsoft technologies our customers already have. MSN MSN provides personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, and online information offerings such MSN Search, MapPoint, and the MSN portals and channels around the world. MSN also provides variety online paid offerings. MSN manages many its own properties, including health, autos, and shopping. MSN also creates alliances with third parties for many channels, including CareerBuilder com, Expedia com, Foxsports com, Match com, and MSNBC com. MSN generates revenue primarily from advertisers MSN, from consumers and partners through subscriptions and transactions, and from MSN narrowband Internet access subscribers. fiscal year , launched MSN adCenter \x96 our internally developed advertising platform \x96 certain international markets and throughout the . where now serves percent paid search traffic our online properties. believe MSN adCenter will enable increase both display and search advertising revenues reducing our reliance third parties for delivering PAGE Part Item ads. fiscal year , announced Windows Live\x99, set Internet services and software designed improve the users\x92 connected experience and released Windows Live Messenger consumers countries. Products: MSN Search; MapPoint; MSN Internet Access; MSN Premium Web Services (consisting MSN Internet Software Subscription, MSN Hotmail Plus, MSN Bill Pay, and MSN Radio Plus); Windows Live; and MSN Mobile Services. Competition MSN competes with AOL, Google, Yahoo!, and wide array Web sites and portals that provide content and online offerings all types end users. compete with these organizations provide advertising opportunities for merchants. MSN also competes for narrowband Internet access users with AOL, Earthlink, and other ISPs for dial- internet access the United States. Due the continuing trend consumers migrating from narrowband broadband Internet access, expect our narrowband Internet access subscriber base continue decline -emphasize this portion our business. The Internet advertising industry has grown significantly over the past several years, and anticipate that this trend will continue. Competitors are aggressively developing Internet offerings that seek provide more effective ways connecting advertisers with audiences through enhanced functionality communication services, improvements information services such Internet search, and improved advertising infrastructure and support services. have developed our own algorithmic search engine provide end users with more relevant search results, broader selection content, and expanded search services. support the growth our advertising business, also are investing our communication services, technology, operations, and sales efforts. will continue introduce new products and services, including the Windows Live set services that are aimed attracting additional users through improvements the user online experience. believe that can compete effectively across the breadth our Internet services providing users with software innovation the form information and communication services that help them find, discover, and experience what they want online and providing merchants with effective advertising results through improved systems and sales support. Mobile and Embedded Devices Mobile and Embedded Devices develops and markets products that extend the Windows platform mobile devices such PDAs and phones, and embedded devices. Microsoft\x92 vision for mobile devices rooted the convergence the computing and wireless industries, which believe creates new opportunities improve communication and information access for customers. see software key differentiator making smart devices and wireless data services valuable customers through rich experiences such mobile messaging, location-based services, media, and speech recognition. are working closely with mobile operators and with hardware and software partners accelerate the development and availability smart devices and services, and provide broad range choices for customers. The segment also responsible for managing our company-wide sales and customer relations with device manufacturers and other communication-sector customers, which includes network service providers and media and entertainment companies. Windows Embedded suite operating systems, tools, and technologies that are specifically designed for today\x92 advanced embedded devices. Products: Windows Mobile software platform; Windows Embedded device operating system; and Windows Automotive. Competition Windows Mobile software faces substantial competition from Nokia, Openwave Systems, Palm, QUALCOMM, Research Motion, and Symbian. The embedded operating system segment highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include IBM, Wind River, and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. The telematics market also highly fragmented, with competitive offerings from IBM and automotive suppliers building various real-time operating system platforms from commercial Linux vendors, QNX Software Systems, Wind River, and others. believe that our products compete effectively providing familiar development framework, which enables developers easily write and deploy innovative applications for mobile embedded devices. also compete providing flexible platform that allows customers and partners build differentiated and profitable business models, and providing end users with benefits such ease use, personal productivity, and better information management and control. PAGE Part Item Home and Entertainment Home and Entertainment responsible for development, production, and marketing for the Xbox video game system, including consoles and accessories, third-party games, games published under the Microsoft brand, and Xbox Live operations, research, and sales and support. addition Xbox, offer several types entertainment products, including software games, online games, and other devices. The segment also leads the development efforts our Consumer Productivity Experience Group (\x93CPxG\x94) which includes Microsoft\x92 line consumer software and hardware products, such the Encarta line learning products and services, application software for Macintosh computers, and Microsoft hardware products such mice and keyboards. addition, the segment carries out all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office and the Windows operating systems (for which receives inter-segment commission), Xbox, games, and CPxG products. also responsible for the development, sales, and deployment Microsoft\x92 platform products for the interactive television industry, including MSTV Foundation Edition and Internet Protocol products. Products: Xbox ; Xbox; Xbox Live; CPxG (consumer software and hardware products); and IPTV. Competition The home and entertainment business highly competitive, characterized rapid product life cycles, frequent introductions new products and titles, and the development new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized significant price competition. anticipate continued pricing pressure from our competitors. From time time, have responded this pressure reducing prices certain products. Our competitors vary size from very small companies with limited resources very large, diversified corporations with substantial financial and marketing resources. compete primarily the basis product innovation, quality and variety, timing product releases, and effectiveness distribution and marketing. Our Xbox hardware business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large, established base customers. The lifecycle for video game consoles averages years. released Xbox , our next generation console November . Nintendo and Sony have also announced new versions their game consoles, which have not been released. Success the transition the next generation consoles will depend the availability games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power the console, and the ability create new revenue sources such advertising and downloadable content. believe the Xbox positioned well against competitive console products based significant innovation hardware architecture, new developer tools, expanded revenue sources, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises such Halo. addition competing against software published for non-Xbox platforms, our games business also competes with numerous companies that have licensed develop and publish software for the Xbox consoles. Our hardware products face aggressive competition from computer and other hardware manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners. Our MSTV business faces competition primarily from hoc solutions that address sub-segments the delivery platform, but that not provide end- -end solutions for the network operator. OPERATIONS serve the needs customers around the world and improve the quality and usability products international markets, \x93localize\x94 many our products reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Our operational centers support all operations their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Ireland supports the EMEA region; the center Singapore supports the Japan, Greater China and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers Fargo, Puerto Rico, Reno, and Redmond support North America and Latin America. contract most our manufacturing activities third parties who produce the Xbox, various retail software packaged products, and Microsoft hardware. Our products may include some components that are available from only one limited sources. Our Xbox console includes certain key components that are supplied single source. The central processing unit purchased from IBM and the graphics chips and embedded dynamic random access memory chips for the graphics processing unit are purchased from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and NEC Corporation, respectively. Although have chosen initially source these key Xbox components from PAGE Part Item single supplier, are under obligation exclusively source components from these vendors the future. Beyond the exceptions noted, generally have the ability use other custom manufacturers the current vendor becomes unavailable. generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years. plan continue significant investment broad range research and product development. Most our software products are developed internally. also purchase technology, license intellectual property rights, and oversee third-party development and localization certain products. believe are not materially dependent upon licenses and other agreements with third parties relating the development our products. Internal development allows maintain closer technical control over our products. also gives the freedom decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. Generally, also create product documentation internally. strive obtain information the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, provide application vendors with range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Business and Product Development Strategy. Innovation key factor affecting Microsoft\x92 growth. fiscal year , received our , patent. continue our long-term commitment research and development, including advanced work aimed innovations wide spectrum technologies: tools and platforms; communication, collaboration and expression; information access and organization; entertainment; business and -commerce; and devices. Through innovations these areas, expect grow revenue via three principal strategies: \x95 Strengthening core businesses. The Client, Server & Tools, and Information Worker segments remain our largest businesses and continue grow result growth personal computer and server shipments, software upgrades and growth the market for business software and services. believe the growth our core businesses will driven our forthcoming innovations, including the Windows Vista operating system, the Microsoft Office system, and Exchange Server . also expect these businesses impacted expected growth the world\x92 developing countries, their economies develop and they adopt global standards for intellectual property protection. fiscal year , nearly million PCs were sold with pirated versions Windows. Our Windows Genuine Advantage program and agreements with manufacturers China are just two examples our commitment protect our intellectual property. Meanwhile, new payment options like FlexGo, which enables people finance their computer use pay- -you- basis, will help reach new consumers emerging markets. \x95 Succeeding adjacent businesses. fiscal year , will deliver new products, services, and technologies that believe will position take advantage new opportunities. One example unified communications, which brings together telephony, email, instant messaging, mobile devices, and Web conferencing, order streamline the way workers communicate. believe new enterprise information management tools will help knowledge workers create, find, use, and share business information more quickly and more effectively. addition, \x92 offer new security capabilities, improved management products, and new development tools. recently entered the high-performance computing business and have new offerings and initiatives industries such life sciences and manufacturing. \x95 Entering new markets. believe new markets, such online gaming and entertainment services, including IPTV, our digital television technology, provide number new opportunities for . Leading the Software Services Transformation Internet-based services are transforming the way people create, deploy, manage and use technology. are committed playing leadership role the software services transformation through our efforts create our services platform for the next generation applications, communications, and commerce. Across the company, software services are the core our development efforts. PAGE Part Item fiscal year , introduced Windows Live and Office Live, which provides small businesses with affordable Internet-based business services hosted Microsoft. rolled out new search services, including beta releases Windows Live Search and Windows Live Academic Search. introduced new and enhanced services for computer safety and computer maintenance (Windows Live SafetyCenter and Windows Live OneCare), communications (Windows Live Mail and Windows Live Messenger), and entertainment (Xbox Live). also created Live Labs, applied research program that targets Internet products and services. Because software services offer strong opportunities for growth, will continue refine and improve adCenter, our advertising engine for Windows Live, MSN and other online offerings. will deploy new service-based solutions, including Dynamics CRM Live, which announced July . will also continue build out our services infrastructure, providing new tools help partners and businesses create and host services, and adding new data centers meet growing consumer demand for services. DISTRIBUTION, SALES AND MARKETING distribute our products primarily through the following channels: OEM; distributors and resellers; and online. OEM. Our operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right build computing devices based our operating systems, principally PCs. Under similar arrangements, also market and license certain server operating systems, desktop applications, hardware devices, and consumer software products OEMs. have OEM agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the major OEMs, including Acer, Dell, Fujitsu, Fujitsu Siemens Computers, Gateway, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, NEC, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba. substantial amount OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume customized vendors operating local markets. Distributors and Resellers. license software organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer acquire multiple licenses products. Organizations license our products primarily through large account resellers (\x93LARs\x94), direct market resellers, and value-added resellers (\x93VARs\x94). Many organizations that license products through enterprise agreements (\x93EAs\x94) transact directly with , with sales support from our Enterprise Software Advisor channel partners. These Enterprise Software Advisors typically are also authorized LARs and operate resellers for our other licensing programs. Although each type reselling partner reaches organizations all sizes, LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations and VARs typically reach the breadth small- and medium-sized organizations. Some our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some our largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Insight Enterprises, Software House International, and Software Spectrum. Our business solutions software offerings are licensed enterprises through global network channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. distribute our finished goods products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain our products primarily through retail outlets, including Best Buy, Target, and Wal-Mart. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers and provides product training and sales support. Our arrangements for organizations acquire multiple licenses products are designed provide them with means doing without having acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. delivering organizational licensing arrangements the market, use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they include: Open. Designed primarily for small- -medium organizations ( over licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, rights future versions software products over specified time period (generally two years). The offering that conveys rights future versions certain software product over the contract period called Software Assurance. Software Assurance also provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Under the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, licenses with Software Assurance. They can also renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Select. Designed primarily for medium- -large organizations (greater than licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, Software Assurance, which consists rights future versions certain software products, support, tools, and training over specified time period (generally three years). Similar the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with Software Assurance, renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. PAGE Part Item Enterprise Agreement. The Enterprise Agreement targeted medium and large organizations that want acquire perpetual licenses software products for all substantial parts their enterprise, along with rights future versions certain software products, support, tools, and training over specified time period (generally three years). Online Services. distribute online content and services through MSN and other online channels. MSN delivers Internet access and various premium services and tools consumers. MSN also delivers online -mail and messaging communication services and information services such online search, advertising, and premium content. Home and Entertainment operates the Xbox Live service which allows customers participate the gaming experience with other subscribers online. Microsoft Business Solutions operates the Microsoft Small Business Center portal, which delivered online. This portal provides tools and expertise for small-business owners build, market, and manage their businesses online. Other services delivered online include Microsoft Developer Networks subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support our partners developing and selling our products and solutions. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet Service Providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small- and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through resellers and OEMs. Sales Dell and its subsidiaries the aggregate accounted for approximately % fiscal year and % each fiscal year and revenue. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels and cover broad array products including Windows operating systems, Microsoft Office, and server products. Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers August , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates III Chairman the Board Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Robert . (Robbie) Bach President, Microsoft Entertainment and Devices Division Lisa . Brummel Senior Vice President, Human Resources Kevin . Johnson -President, Microsoft Platforms and Services Division Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey . Raikes President, Microsoft Business Division Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs; General Counsel and Secretary Brian Kevin Turner Chief Operating Officer . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. June , . Gates stepped down Chief Software Architect and announced two-year transition plan out day- -day role the Company. . Gates has served Chairman since our incorporation. . Ballmer was appointed Chief Executive Officer January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Bach was named President, Microsoft Entertainment and Devices Division September . had been Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March , and Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity, and Vice President, Desktop Applications Marketing since . . Bach joined Microsoft . PAGE Part Item , . Brummel was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources December . She had been Corporate Vice President, Human Resources since April . From April , she had been Corporate Vice President the Home & Retail Division. Since joining Microsoft , . Brummel has held number management positions Microsoft, including general manager Consumer Productivity business, product unit manager the Kids business and product unit manager Desktop and Decision reference products. . Johnson was named -President, Microsoft Platforms and Services Division September . had been Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services since March . Before that position, had been Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas since February and Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August , and prior assuming that role, had been Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. joined Microsoft . . Liddell was named Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer the Company May . . Liddell served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer International Paper Company since March , and prior becoming Chief Financial Officer, held the positions Vice President-Finance and Controller. . Liddell served Chief Executive Officer Carter Holt Harvey Limited, affiliate International Paper, from and Chief Financial Officer from . . Raikes was named President, Microsoft Business Division September . had been Group Vice President, Information Worker Business since June . Before that position, had been Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services since August and Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Smith was appointed Senior Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary November . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer effective July . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . . Turner was appointed Chief Operating Officer September . Before joining Microsoft, was Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer the Sam\x92 Club division Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. From September August , served Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Wal-Mart\x92 Information Systems Division. From March September , served its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer the Information Systems Division. EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. There make available, free charge, our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file such material with furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94). Our SEC reports can accessed through the investor relations section our Web site. The information found our Web site not part this any other report file with furnish the SEC. ', 'item 1a. ': 'RISK FACTORS Challenges our business model may reduce our revenues and operating margins. Our business model has been based upon customers paying fee license software that developed and distributed. Under this license-based software model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution their products. believe the license-based software model has had substantial benefits for users software, allowing them rely our expertise and the expertise other software developers that have powerful incentives develop innovative software that useful, reliable, and compatible with other software and hardware. recent years PAGE Part Item certain \x93open source\x94 software business models have evolved into growing challenge our license-based software model. Open source commonly refers software whose source code subject license allowing modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject restrictions set forth the license. number commercial firms compete with using open source business model modifying and then distributing open source software end users nominal cost and earning revenue complementary services and products. These firms not have bear the full costs research and development for the software. prominent example open source software the Linux operating system. While believe our products provide customers with significant advantages security and productivity, and generally have lower total cost ownership than open source software, the popularization the open source software model continues pose significant challenge our business model, including continuing efforts proponents open source software convince governments worldwide mandate the use open source software their purchase and deployment software products. the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance, sales our products may decline, may have reduce the prices charge for our products, and revenue and operating margins may consequently decline. Another development the software- - -service business model, which companies provide applications, data, and related services over the Internet. Providers use primarily advertising subscription-based revenue models. Recent advances computing and communications technologies have made this model viable and enabled the rapid growth some our competitors. are devoting significant resources toward developing our own software- - -service strategies. uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful. face intense competition. continue experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors range size from Fortune companies small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. While believe the breadth our businesses and product portfolio offers benefits our customers that are competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused narrower product line may more effective devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources compete with . addition, barriers entry our businesses generally are low. The Internet distribution channel and the non-commercial software model described above have reduced barriers entry even further. Open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts developing software that mimics the features and functionality our products. response competitive factors, are developing versions our products with basic functionality that are sold lower prices than the standard versions. These competitive pressures may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives, resulting lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. may not able protect our intellectual property rights against piracy, infringement our patents third parties, declining legal protection for intellectual property. defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use software and intellectual property rights through variety techniques. Preventing unauthorized use infringement our rights difficult. Piracy our products represents loss revenue . While this adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the United States more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Similarly, the absence harmonized patent laws makes more difficult ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Future legal changes could make this even more challenging. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail enhance revenue. Reductions the legal protection for software intellectual property rights compliance with additional intellectual property obligations impacting the rights software developers could both adversely affect revenue. Third parties may claim infringe their intellectual property rights. From time time receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow. Responding these claims may require enter into royalty and licensing agreements less favorable terms, require stop selling redesign affected products, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. are required enter into such agreements take such actions, our operating margins may decline result. have made and expect continue making significant expenditures settle claims related the use technology and intellectual property rights part our strategy manage this risk. PAGE Part Item may not able protect our source code from copying there unauthorized disclosure source code. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, critical our business. While license certain portions our source code for various software programs and operating systems number licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. unauthorized disclosure significant portion our source code occurs, could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss future trade secret protection could make easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code could also increase certain risks described the next paragraph. Security vulnerabilities our products could lead reduced revenues liability claims. Maintaining the security computers and computer networks critical issue for and our customers. Hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. While this industry-wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, affects our products particular because hackers tend focus their efforts the most popular operating systems and programs and expect them continue . devote significant resources address these critical issues. focus engineering even more secure products, enhancing security and reliability options and settings when deliver products, and providing guidance help our customers make the best use our products and services protect against computer viruses and other attacks their computing environment. addition, are working improve the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities discovered after our products are released. are also investing mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed. advise customers how help protect themselves from security threats through the use our online automated security tools, our published security guidance, and the deployment security software such firewalls, anti-virus, and other security software. The cost these steps could reduce our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products could lead some customers seek return products, reduce delay future purchases, use competing products. Customers may also increase their expenditures protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption new technologies. Any these actions customers could adversely affect our revenue. addition, actual perceived vulnerabilities may lead claims against . While our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure such liability, there assurance these provisions will held effective under applicable laws and judicial decisions. are subject government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how design and market our products. leading global software maker receive scrutiny from government agencies under . and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights action for competitors consumers based alleged anti-competitive conduct. For example, have been involved the following actions. Lawsuits brought the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia two separate actions were resolved through Consent Decree that took effect November and Final Judgment entered November . These proceedings imposed regulatory constraints our Windows operating system businesses, including limits certain contracting practices, required disclosure certain software program interfaces, limits Microsoft\x92 ability ensure the visibility certain Windows features new PCs, and required licensing certain communications protocols. While believe currently are full compliance with the Decree and Judgment, fail comply with them the future additional restrictions could imposed that would adversely affect our business. March , the European Commission determined that must create new versions Windows that not include certain multimedia technologies, many which are required for certain Web sites, software applications and other aspects Windows function properly, and must provide our competitors with specifications for how implement certain communications protocols supported Windows. Microsoft has appealed both determinations European courts. result the Commission decision, have incurred and will (absent reversal this ruling) continue incur duplicative development costs. The Commission ruling obligates Microsoft make available specifications for certain Windows communications protocol technologies licensing terms that are closely regulated the Commission. The availability these licenses may enable competitors develop software products that better mimic the functionality Microsoft\x92 own products which could result reduction sales our products. Pending resolution Microsoft\x92 appeal, there will remain uncertainty about the legal principles that govern PAGE Part Item product design issues for future releases Microsoft products Europe. These uncertainties could cause Microsoft modify product design and delay release dates for Windows other products. December , the Korean Fair Trade Commission (\x93KFTC\x94) completed investigation whether including streaming media technology instant messenger technology Windows, including Windows Media Services optional component Windows Server, violates the Korean Fair Trade Law. The KFTC ruled that had violated the law and issued remedial order requiring offer two versions Windows operating systems, one with Windows Media Player and Instant Messenger removed and another with those functionalities but also including opportunities for OEMs install competing media player and instant messenger programs. upheld appeal, these remedies could adversely affect the utility and competitive position Windows operating systems the Korean market. believe our integrated approach delivery product innovation benefits consumers and business. Current future government regulatory efforts and court decisions may hinder delay our ability provide these benefits thereby reducing the attractiveness our products and the revenues that come from them. Moreover, there always remains the risk new legal action, either these other governments private claimants including with respect products features that haven\x92 been scrutinized been the subject objections the past. The outcome such legal actions could adversely affect variety ways, including: \x95 may have design develop alternative versions products for specific geographical markets remove limit visibility certain functionality, resulting reduced customer benefits additional costs and delays the release product lines specific product versions. \x95 Mandated alternative versions our software may cause confusion that harms our reputation, including among consumers and with third-party software and Web site developers who rely the functionality removed from these alternative versions. \x95 Competition authorities may authorize competitors distribute implementations Microsoft communications protocols source code form without proper contractual provisions protect our intellectual property. \x95 may have disclose otherwise confidential and trade secret information concerning the operation our software that may facilitate the development competing software. \x95 not reversed limited appeal, the rulings described above may cited precedent other proceedings that seek limit our ability continue improve Windows adding new functionality response consumer demand. Our online offerings are subject government regulation the Internet domestically and internationally areas such user privacy, data protection, and online content. The application these laws and regulations our business often unclear and sometimes may conflict. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs require changes business practices that result reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result penalties being imposed orders that cease conducting the noncompliant activity. Our business depends largely our ability attract and retain talented employees. Our business based successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers our industry extremely competitive. are limited our ability recruit internationally restrictive domestic immigration laws. are less successful our recruiting efforts, are unable retain key employees, our ability develop and deliver successful products and services may adversely affected. Delays product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new product releases significant problems creating new products could adversely affect our revenue. make significant investments new products and services that may not profitable. have made and will continue make significant investments research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including Windows Vista, the Microsoft Office system, Xbox , MSN Search, Windows Server and Windows Live. Investments new technology are inherently speculative. Commercial success depends many factors including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. Significant revenue from new product and service investments may not achieved for number years, all. Moreover, new products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not high the margins have experienced historically. PAGE Part Item Declines demand for software could occur. overall market demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines significantly, consumer corporate spending for such products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. addition, our revenue would unfavorably impacted customers reduce their purchases new software products upgrades existing products because new product offerings are not perceived providing significant new functionality other value prospective purchasers. are making significant investments Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system. these products are not perceived offering significant new functionality value prospective purchasers, our revenue and operating margins could adversely affected. have claims and lawsuits against that may result adverse outcomes. are subject variety claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes some all the claims pending against may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against that could adversely affect our ability conduct our business. While management currently believes that resolving all these matters, individually the aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position results operations, the litigation and other claims are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. There exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. may have additional tax liabilities. are subject income taxes both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. are regularly under audit tax authorities. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based the results audit litigation, material effect our income tax provision, net income cash flows the period periods for which that determination made could result. may risk having insufficient supplies certain Xbox components console inventory. Some components the Xbox are obtained from single supplier and others may subject industry-wide supply shortage. component delivery from sole-source supplier delayed becomes unavailable industry shortages occur, may unable obtain replacement supplies timely basis, resulting reduced console and game sales. Components are ordered based forecasted console demand may experience component shortages for the Xbox , alternatively, excess console inventory that may require record charges cost revenue. Xbox consoles will assembled Asia; disruptions the supply chain may result console shortages that would affect our revenues and operating margins. our goodwill amortizable intangible assets become impaired may required record significant charge earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. Goodwill required tested for impairment least annually. Factors that may considered change circumstances indicating that the carrying value our goodwill amortizable intangible assets may not recoverable include decline stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates our industry. may required record significant charge earnings our financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill amortizable intangible assets determined, negatively impacting our results operations. Changes accounting may affect our reported earnings and operating income. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects our business, such revenue recognition for software, accounting for investments, and treatment goodwill amortizable intangible assets, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes these rules their interpretation changes our products business could significantly change our reported earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility those measures, without comparable underlying change cash flow from operations. See Note \x93Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x94 and \x93Item . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x96 Critical Accounting Policies\x94 this report. operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure make our pricing structure uniform might PAGE Part Item require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. Operations outside the United States may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor economic conditions specific country region; and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations. While hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. General economic and geo-political risks may affect our revenue and profitability. Inflation, softness corporate information technology spending, other changes general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenue our investment portfolio. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries generally and could require changes our operations and security arrangements, thus increasing our operating costs. These conditions may lend additional uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. are highly automated business and disruption failure our systems the event major earthquake, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales and providing services. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could severely affect our ability conduct normal business operations and, result, our future operating results could adversely affected. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that don\x92 realize satisfactory return the investment make, that may experience difficulty the integration new employees, business systems, and technology, diversion management\x92 attention from our other businesses. These factors could adversely affect our operating results financial condition. have limited insurance. maintain third party insurance coverage against various liability risks and risks property loss. Because the unavailability high cost conventional insurance arrangements, have entered into captive insurance arrangements for the purpose protecting against possible catastrophic and other risks not covered traditional insurance markets. June , , the face value captive insurance arrangements was $ billion. Actual value any particular time will vary due deductibles, exclusions, other restrictions, and claims. While believe these arrangements are effective way insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with the risks discussed this report other events could exceed the coverage provided such arrangements. Improper disclosure personal data could result liability and harm our reputation. store and process significant amounts personally identifiable information offer large array products and services our customers. possible that our security controls over personal data, our training employees and vendors data security, and other practices follow may not prevent the improper disclosure personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting increased costs loss revenue. Our software products also enable our customers store and process personal data. Perceptions that our products not adequately protect the privacy personal information could inhibit sales our products. Other risks that may affect our business. Other factors that may affect our performance may include: \x95 sales channel disruption, such the bankruptcy major distributor; \x95 our ability implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth; \x95 the continued availability third-party distribution channels for MSN service and other online offerings; and \x95 disruption our operations result weather-related events. PAGE Part Item , , , ', 'item 1b. ': 'UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS have received written comments regarding our periodic current reports from the staff the SEC that were issued days more preceding the end our fiscal year that remain unresolved. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington: million square feet owned space that situated approximately acres land own our corporate campus and approximately million square feet space lease. own approximately , square feet office building space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately million square feet that leased and approximately , square feet that owned. These facilities include our European Operations Center that leases , square foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and , square foot facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; Reading, England , square feet; and Mississauga, Canada , square feet. addition the above locations, have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described \x93Operations\x94 above. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. own acres land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet office space and have agreement with the City Redmond under which may develop additional million square feet facilities our campus Redmond, Washington. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS May , , the Korean Fair Trade Commission (\x93KFTC\x94) denied our motion for reconsideration the formal written ruling against its competition law investigation the company. part its decision, however, the KFTC dropped the requirement prohibiting from including Windows Media Player Windows Messenger, any feature with similar functionality, any product other than the Windows client operating system for which have % greater market share. Our request stay the KFTC corrective order was denied July , . Our appeal the KFTC\x92 decision the Seoul High Court still pending. July , , the European Commission announced its determination that had not complied with the technical documentation requirements its Decision against , and levied fine \x80 million ($ million). intend appeal this fine the Court First Instance. have completed the written and oral procedures our appeal the Commission\x92 underlying March decision finding Microsoft violation European competition law and accompanying \x80 million ($ million) fine and are awaiting decision the Court First Instance. See Note \x96 Contingencies \x93Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x94 for information regarding other legal proceedings which are involved. ', 'item 4. ': 'SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal year . PAGE Part Item PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding dividends approved our Board Directors fiscal years and . July , , announced the completion the repurchase program approved our Board Directors July , , buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. The repurchases were made using our cash resources. repurchased common stock each quarter fiscal year follows: Period Total number shares purchased Average price paid per share July , \x96 September , , , $ October , \x96 December , , , $ January , \x96 March , , , $ April , \x96 June , , , $ Common stock repurchases the fourth quarter fiscal year were follows: Period ( ) Total number shares purchased ( ) Average price paid per share ( ) Total number shares purchased part publicly announced plans programs ( ) Maximum number shares ( approximate dollar value) shares that may yet purchased under the plans programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , , , $ , , $ , May , \x96 May , , , $ , , $ , June , \x96 June , , , $ , , $ , , , , , July , , announced that our Board Directors authorized two new share repurchase programs: $ billion tender offer which was completed August , ; and authorization for additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program with expiration June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares common stock, % our common shares outstanding, for approximately $ billion price per share $ . PAGE Part Item , August , , announced that the authorization for the ongoing share repurchase program, previously announced July , , had been increased approximately $ billion. result, the company authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . ', 'item 6. ': '', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x96 Critical Accounting Policies\x94 this report. operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure make our pricing structure uniform might PAGE Part Item require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. Operations outside the United States may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor economic conditions specific country region; and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations. While hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. General economic and geo-political risks may affect our revenue and profitability. Inflation, softness corporate information technology spending, other changes general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenue our investment portfolio. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries generally and could require changes our operations and security arrangements, thus increasing our operating costs. These conditions may lend additional uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. are highly automated business and disruption failure our systems the event major earthquake, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales and providing services. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could severely affect our ability conduct normal business operations and, result, our future operating results could adversely affected. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that don\x92 realize satisfactory return the investment make, that may experience difficulty the integration new employees, business systems, and technology, diversion management\x92 attention from our other businesses. These factors could adversely affect our operating results financial condition. have limited insurance. maintain third party insurance coverage against various liability risks and risks property loss. Because the unavailability high cost conventional insurance arrangements, have entered into captive insurance arrangements for the purpose protecting against possible catastrophic and other risks not covered traditional insurance markets. June , , the face value captive insurance arrangements was $ billion. Actual value any particular time will vary due deductibles, exclusions, other restrictions, and claims. While believe these arrangements are effective way insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with the risks discussed this report other events could exceed the coverage provided such arrangements. Improper disclosure personal data could result liability and harm our reputation. store and process significant amounts personally identifiable information offer large array products and services our customers. possible that our security controls over personal data, our training employees and vendors data security, and other practices follow may not prevent the improper disclosure personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting increased costs loss revenue. Our software products also enable our customers store and process personal data. Perceptions that our products not adequately protect the privacy personal information could inhibit sales our products. Other risks that may affect our business. Other factors that may affect our performance may include: \x95 sales channel disruption, such the bankruptcy major distributor; \x95 our ability implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth; \x95 the continued availability third-party distribution channels for MSN service and other online offerings; and \x95 disruption our operations result weather-related events. PAGE Part Item , , , ITEM . UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS have received written comments regarding our periodic current reports from the staff the SEC that were issued days more preceding the end our fiscal year that remain unresolved. ITEM . PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington: million square feet owned space that situated approximately acres land own our corporate campus and approximately million square feet space lease. own approximately , square feet office building space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately million square feet that leased and approximately , square feet that owned. These facilities include our European Operations Center that leases , square foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and , square foot facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; Reading, England , square feet; and Mississauga, Canada , square feet. addition the above locations, have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described \x93Operations\x94 above. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. own acres land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet office space and have agreement with the City Redmond under which may develop additional million square feet facilities our campus Redmond, Washington. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS May , , the Korean Fair Trade Commission (\x93KFTC\x94) denied our motion for reconsideration the formal written ruling against its competition law investigation the company. part its decision, however, the KFTC dropped the requirement prohibiting from including Windows Media Player Windows Messenger, any feature with similar functionality, any product other than the Windows client operating system for which have % greater market share. Our request stay the KFTC corrective order was denied July , . Our appeal the KFTC\x92 decision the Seoul High Court still pending. July , , the European Commission announced its determination that had not complied with the technical documentation requirements its Decision against , and levied fine \x80 million ($ million). intend appeal this fine the Court First Instance. have completed the written and oral procedures our appeal the Commission\x92 underlying March decision finding Microsoft violation European competition law and accompanying \x80 million ($ million) fine and are awaiting decision the Court First Instance. See Note \x96 Contingencies \x93Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x94 for information regarding other legal proceedings which are involved. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal year . PAGE Part Item PART ITEM . MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding dividends approved our Board Directors fiscal years and . July , , announced the completion the repurchase program approved our Board Directors July , , buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. The repurchases were made using our cash resources. repurchased common stock each quarter fiscal year follows: Period Total number shares purchased Average price paid per share July , \x96 September , , , $ October , \x96 December , , , $ January , \x96 March , , , $ April , \x96 June , , , $ Common stock repurchases the fourth quarter fiscal year were follows: Period ( ) Total number shares purchased ( ) Average price paid per share ( ) Total number shares purchased part publicly announced plans programs ( ) Maximum number shares ( approximate dollar value) shares that may yet purchased under the plans programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , , , $ , , $ , May , \x96 May , , , $ , , $ , June , \x96 June , , , $ , , $ , , , , , July , , announced that our Board Directors authorized two new share repurchase programs: $ billion tender offer which was completed August , ; and authorization for additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program with expiration June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares common stock, % our common shares outstanding, for approximately $ billion price per share $ . PAGE Part Item , August , , announced that the authorization for the ongoing share repurchase program, previously announced July , , had been increased approximately $ billion. result, the company authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Fiscal Year Ended June Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ \x96 Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Long-term obligations , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , PAGE Part Item ITEM . MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS , , AND OVERVIEW The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis (\x93 & \x94) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes the financial statements (\x93Notes\x94). develop, manufacture, license, and support wide range software products for many computing devices. Our software products include operating systems for servers, PCs, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; and software development tools. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify system integrators and developers. sell the Xbox video game console and games, games, and peripherals. Online communication and information services are delivered through our MSN portals and channels around the world. Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest the second quarter our fiscal year due corporate calendar year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers. Our Home and Entertainment segment particularly subject seasonality its products are aimed the consumer market and are highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Typically, Home and Entertainment has generated over % its yearly segment revenues our second fiscal quarter. believe the seasonality revenue likely continue the future. intend sustain the long-term growth our businesses through technological innovation, engineering excellence, and commitment delivering high-quality products and services customers and partners. Recognizing that one our primary challenges help accelerate worldwide adoption and software upgrades, continue advance the functionality, security, and value Windows operating systems. also are increasing our focus emerging markets and reducing the amount unlicensed software those markets. addition, continue develop innovative software applications and solutions that believe will enhance the productivity information workers, improve communication and collaboration work groups, aid business intelligence, and streamline processes for small and mid-sized businesses. sustain the growth our Server and Tools business amid competition from other vendors both proprietary and open source software, our goal deliver products that provide the best platform for network computing \x96 the easiest deploy and manage and most secure \x96 with the lowest total cost ownership. continue invest research and development existing and new lines business, including business solutions, mobile computing, communication, entertainment, and others that believe may contribute our long-term growth. also research and develop advanced technologies for future software products. believe that delivering innovative and high-value solutions through our integrated platform the key meeting customer needs and our future growth. believe that over the last few years have laid foundation for long-term growth delivering innovative products, creating opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction with key audiences, putting some our most significant legal cases behind , and improving our internal business processes. Our focus fiscal year building this foundation and executing well key areas, including continuing innovate our integrated software platform, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and continuing focus internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability across the company. Key market opportunities include: \x95 Strengthening core businesses through new product launches, upgrades, making inroads against software piracy, and extending accessibility new consumers emerging markets. \x95 Succeeding adjacent businesses offering extensions our technologies targeted towards specific customer needs \x96 either new products higher-value versions existing products. \x95 Entering new markets redefine how people create, deliver, and experience entertainment. \x95 Delivering software services through online consumer services and services for businesses that enable workers collaborate interactively. PAGE Part Item Worldwide macroeconomic factors have strong correlation business and consumer demand for our software, services, games and Internet service offerings. expect broad continuation the economic conditions and demand fiscal year compared fiscal year . open source software development and distribution evolves, continue seek differentiate our products from competing products that are based open source software. believe that Microsoft\x92 share server unit operating systems increased fiscal year . Summary Results for Fiscal Years , , and ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Our revenue growth for fiscal year was driven primarily growth SQL Server following the launch SQL Server the second quarter, Windows Server and other server applications, increased Xbox revenue resulting from the Xbox launch the second quarter, growth licensing Windows client operating systems through OEMs, and increased licensing Office and other Information Worker products. Based our estimates, total worldwide shipments from all sources grew approximately % % and total server hardware shipments grew approximately % % during fiscal year . Foreign currency exchange rates did not have significant impact consolidated operating segment revenue during the fiscal year. Revenue growth for fiscal year was driven growth licensing Windows Server operating systems and other server applications, licensing Windows client operating systems through OEMs, and increased licensing Office and other Information Worker products. The November launch the \x93Halo \x94 Xbox game also contributed overall revenue growth for the company. Total worldwide shipments from all sources grew approximately % % and total server hardware shipments grew approximately % % during fiscal year compared fiscal year . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive , primarily due relative strengthening most foreign currencies, particularly the euro and Japanese yen, against the . dollar. Partially offsetting revenue growth rates was $ billion decline earned revenue from Upgrade Advantage fiscal year . This revenue was recognized over fiscal year and fiscal year and the first quarter fiscal year when the contract period expired. Fiscal year revenue growth was primarily driven the growth licensing Windows client operating systems through OEMs, Windows Server operating systems, Office and other server applications result growth and server hardware shipments. The worldwide shipment growth rate from all sources was estimated % and the Windows server shipment was estimated % fiscal year compared fiscal year . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive fiscal year due relative strengthening most foreign currencies versus the . dollar. This resulted approximately $ billion growth total revenue. Operating income for fiscal year increased primarily reflecting the revenue increase and $ million decrease costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. These changes were partially offset $ billion increase cost revenue primarily related Xbox and $ billion increase sales and marketing expense primarily result increased investments partner marketing and product launch-related spending. Headcount-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, increased $ million % resulting from both increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount and % growth headcount over the past twelve months. Stock-based compensation expense decreased $ million % reflecting continuing decline stock option amortization expense. Operating income increased fiscal year due decline stock-based compensation expense; increased revenue Server and Tools, Client and Information Worker, which have higher gross margins compared other segments; and reduction legal costs associated with major litigation. addition, strong sales Halo reduced the overall operating loss for the Home and Entertainment segment for fiscal year . The $ billion decrease stock-based compensation expense was partially offset increased operating expenses $ million related increased salary and benefits for new and existing headcount. General and administrative expenses related major litigation declined fiscal year due the $ billion charges related the settlement Sun PAGE Part Item Microsystems litigation and the fine imposed the European Commission fiscal year . This effect was partially offset legal expenses $ billion related settlements with IBM, Novell, Gateway, and end-user class action plaintiffs resolve antitrust issues and other matters. fiscal year , the operating income decline was caused primarily $ billion legal charges and $ billion stock-based compensation expense related our employee stock option transfer program, mainly offset increase revenue. implemented changes employee compensation fiscal year whereby employees are granted stock awards rather than stock options. also completed employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year which employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested stock options with strike price $ higher JPMorgan Chase Bank (\x93JPMorgan\x94). The unvested options that were transferred JPMorgan became vested upon the transfer. total million the million eligible options were transferred, which resulted additional stock-based compensation expense $ billion the second quarter fiscal year . result these changes, stock-based compensation expense decreased fiscal years and , and expect stock-based compensation expense related stock options continue decrease fiscal year . Fiscal Year Outlook fiscal year , expect continued double digit revenue growth primarily result the upcoming launches Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system. estimate worldwide shipments will grow between % and %. expect that unit growth rates will higher the consumer segment than the business segment and higher emerging markets than mature markets. estimate worldwide server unit shipments will grow between % and % fiscal year compared fiscal year . not expect significant impact from year-over-year foreign currency exchange rates fiscal year . expect our operating income growth rate lag our revenue growth rate the first half fiscal year due increasing mix Xbox console revenue and related costs, coupled with significant investments preparation for the launches our flagship products. expect this trend reverse the second half the fiscal year when expect operating income grow faster than revenue. SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) Our seven segments were Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. July , , announced change our operating segments reflecting the culmination our realignment announced September . These changes will effective for fiscal year ; the seven segments discussed this analysis are presented the way internally managed and monitored performance the business group level fiscal years , , and . The revenue and operating income/(loss) amounts this section are presented basis consistent with . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\x93GAAP\x94) and include certain reconciling items attributable each the segments. The segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements presented basis consistent with the Company\x92 internal management reporting, accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . Certain corporate level expenses have been excluded from our segment operating results and are analyzed separately. Fiscal years and amounts have been restated for certain internal reorganizations and conform the fiscal year presentation. Client ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % PAGE Part Item Client consists premium edition operating systems, including Windows Professional, Media Center Edition, Tablet Edition, and other standard Windows operating systems, including Windows Home. Premium offerings are Windows operating systems sold premium above Windows Home. Client revenue growth correlates with the growth purchases PCs from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. Client revenue increased fiscal year reflecting $ billion % growth OEM revenue driven % growth OEM license units from increased unit shipments, partially offset $ million % decrease revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems. During the year, the mix OEM Windows operating systems licensed with premium edition operating systems percentage total OEM Windows operating systems licensed (\x93OEM Premium Mix\x94) increased two percentage points %. OEM revenue growth included increase revenue $ million resulting from the alignment our billings associated with OEM distributors our system builder channel with both industry standards and other Microsoft channels. The differences between unit growth rates and revenue growth rates from year year are affected changes the OEM Premium Mix, changes the geographical mix, and the channel mix products sold large, multi-national OEMs versus those sold local and regional system builders. Client revenue increased fiscal year driven % growth OEM license units and $ million % growth OEM revenue from increased unit shipments, partially offset $ million % decrease revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems. The OEM Premium Mix remained flat % total OEM Windows operating systems compared the previous year. Revenue earned from Upgrade Advantage declined $ million fiscal year contributing the decrease commercial and retail licensing revenue. Client operating income increased fiscal year reflecting the increase OEM revenue partially offset $ million increase sales and marketing expenses, excluding headcount-related costs, mainly driven increased investments partner marketing and Windows Vista pre-launch programs. Headcount-related costs increased % fiscal year reflecting both % increase headcount primarily associated with Windows Vista and further investments our sales and marketing organization, and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Client operating income increased fiscal year primarily due increase OEM revenue and $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense. These factors were partially offset increase sales and marketing expenses associated with \x93Start Something,\x94 globally launched advertising campaign, marketing for security initiatives, and increase salary and benefits for new and existing headcount. The additional headcount for research and development was primarily devoted the continued development Windows Vista. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Server and Tools consists server software licenses and client access licenses (\x93CAL\x94) for Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Exchange Server and other server products. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier and Professional product support services, and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server and Tools concentrates licensing products, applications, tools, content and services that make information technology professionals and developers more productive and efficient. The segment uses multiple channels for licensing including pre-installed OEM versions, licenses through partners, and licenses directly end customers. The licenses are sold both one-time licenses and multi-year volume licenses. Server and Tools uses product innovation and partnerships with information technology professionals drive the adoption and sales growth its products. Server and Tools revenue increased during fiscal year mainly driven growth SQL Server, Windows Server, and Core CAL. SQL Server and Visual Studio were launched the second quarter fiscal year and produced revenue growth these product lines. Revenue impacted overall server hardware shipments which estimate grew % % fiscal year . Server and Server applications revenue, including CAL revenue, and developer tools, training and certification revenue grew $ billion % during fiscal year . The results reflect broad adoption Windows Server products, especially SQL Server, which grew over % for PAGE Part Item the year. Consulting, Premier and Professional product support services revenue increased $ million % primarily due higher demand for services. fiscal year , Server and Server application revenue, including CAL revenue, grew $ billion %. Consulting, Premier, and Professional product support services revenue increased $ million % compared the previous year. Foreign currency exchange rate changes accounted for $ million three percentage points total Server and Tools revenue growth, which was offset $ million decline Upgrade Advantage revenue earned. Server and Tools operating income increased during fiscal year primarily reflecting increased revenue, partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses. Excluding headcount-related costs, sales and marketing expenses increased $ million due additional spending support long-term strategies and marketing expenses primarily related the launch SQL Server and Visual Studio . Total Server and Tools headcount-related costs increased % related both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. fiscal year , Server and Tools operating income increased primarily due increased revenue and $ billion decrease stock-based compensation expense. This increase was partially offset increase sales and marketing costs and headcount-related costs result increased headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. Information Worker ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Information Worker primarily consists the Microsoft Office system programs, servers, solutions, and services designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. Information Worker includes Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint Portal Server CAL, and other information worker products including Office Communications Server and OneNote. Revenue growth depends the ability add value the core Office product set and expand our product offerings other information worker areas such enterprise content management, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Information Worker revenue increased fiscal year primarily reflecting $ million % increase volume licensing, retail packaged products, and preinstalled versions Office Japan, while OEM revenue increased $ million %. Information Worker revenue increased fiscal year primarily reflecting $ million % increase volume licensing, retail packaged product, and pre-installed versions Office Japan, $ million % increase OEM revenue, and the impact foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset reduced Upgrade Advantage earned revenue. Changes foreign currency exchange rates accounted for approximately $ million three percentage points the revenue growth for fiscal year , offset $ million decline Upgrade Advantage earned revenue. Information Worker operating income increased fiscal year primarily due the revenue growth, partially offset $ million % increase sales and marketing expenses related supporting field sales efforts and $ million % increase research and development expenses. Headcount-related costs increased % during fiscal year reflecting both % increase headcount related supporting field sales efforts and research and development investments future products and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Information Worker operating income growth for fiscal year was primarily due the revenue growth and $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense. Operating expenses were also impacted reduction marketing campaign costs from the previous period associated with the launch Office . This decline was offset increase headcount-related costs result increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. PAGE Part Item Microsoft Business Solutions ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ $ $ % % Operating income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) * % * Not meaningful Microsoft Business Solutions provides business management software solutions targeted businesses varying sizes. The main products consist enterprise resource planning (\x93ERP\x94) solutions, customer relationship management (\x93CRM\x94) software, retail solutions, Microsoft Partner Program (\x93MSPP\x94), and related services. Microsoft Business Solutions also includes the Small and Mid-market Solutions and Partners (\x93SMS& \x94), which focuses sales customers and partners the small and mid-market customer segments. Revenue derived from software and services sales, with software sales representing significant amount total revenue. Software revenues include both new software licenses and enhancement plans, which provide customers with future software upgrades over the period the plan. Our solutions are delivered through worldwide network channel partners that provide services and local support. Microsoft Business Solutions revenue increased fiscal year driven new users for Microsoft CRM and existing Dynamics ERP customers purchasing functionality and user licenses. The increase Microsoft Business Solutions revenue fiscal year was mainly due % revenue growth software partially offset % decline services revenue. The software revenue increase was driven % growth license revenue and % growth enhancement revenue and was attributed growth ERP and CRM solutions and increase MSPP subscriptions. Microsoft Business Solutions operating income increased fiscal year reflecting the increase revenue accompanied $ million decrease sales and marketing expense result decreased net SMS& spending. Headcount-related costs increased % reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Microsoft Business Solutions operating loss declined fiscal year primarily due $ million decline stock-based compensation expense, increase product revenue, and decline amortization acquired intangibles. The reduction operating loss was partially offset net increase sales and marketing expense driven incremental costs the SMS& organization. addition, increased our marketing and product development spending our ERP and CRM portfolios. MSN ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Operating income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ * % * Not meaningful MSN includes personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, and online information offerings, such MSN Search, and the MSN portals and channels around the world. MSN also provides variety online paid services addition MSN Internet Access and MSN Premium Web Services. Revenue derived primarily from advertisers MSN, from consumers and partners through subscriptions and transactions generated from online paid services, and from MSN narrowband Internet access subscribers. fiscal year , launched MSN adCenter \x96 our internally developed advertising platform \x96 certain international markets and throughout the . where now serves percent paid search traffic our online properties. believe MSN adCenter will enable increase both display and search advertising revenues reducing our reliance third parties for delivering ads. Effective July , , functions related MapPoint previously reported Mobile and Embedded PAGE Part Item Devices were moved MSN. Mobile and Embedded Devices and MSN operating results for the prior periods have been restated for this reorganization. announced fiscal year , Windows Live\x99, set Internet services and software designed improve the users\x92 connected experience, including Windows Live\x99 Local and Windows Live Messenger. MSN revenue decreased fiscal year primarily reflecting $ million % decline access revenue, partially offset $ million % increase advertising revenue and $ million % increase revenue from subscription and transaction services other than access. June , , MSN had million access subscribers compared with million June , . addition, MSN had over million active Hotmail accounts and over million active Messenger accounts June , . The increase advertising revenue reflects growth display advertising for portals, channels, email, and messaging services, which was partially offset decline search revenue due the transition adCenter. fiscal year , MSN revenue increased reflecting $ million % growth advertising revenue primarily result industry and market growth and continued growth MSN display advertising revenue and $ million % growth subscription and transaction services revenue. These increases were partially offset the search clarity advertising program, the impact the homepage redesign, and decline $ million % access revenue, driven the continued migration Internet Access subscribers broadband other competitively priced Internet service providers. MSN operating income decreased fiscal year due $ million % increase research and development costs, $ million % increase sales and marketing expenses, and $ million % increase cost revenue continue invest MSN adCenter, Windows Live, and other new platforms. Headcount-related costs increased % reflecting % increase headcount and increased salaries and benefits for existing employees, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation. fiscal year , MSN operating income increased mainly due $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense, reduced costs associated with the Internet Access business, and increased advertising and subscription revenue. Partially offsetting the decreased expenses were increased headcount-related costs result increased headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. Mobile and Embedded Devices ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ $ $ % % Operating income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) * % * Not meaningful Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded operating systems, and Windows Automotive. These products extend the advantages the Windows platform mobile devices such PDAs, phones, and wide range embedded devices. The business also responsible for managing sales and customer relationships for Microsoft overall with device manufacturers and communication sector customers. The communication sector includes network service providers (such wireless, wireline and cable operators) and media and entertainment companies. The market for products these segments intensely competitive. Competitive alternatives vary based product lines and include product offerings from commercial and non-commercial mobile operating system providers, and proprietary software developed OEMs and mobile operators. Effective July , , functions related MapPoint previously reported Mobile and Embedded Devices were moved MSN. Mobile and Embedded Devices and MSN operating results for the prior periods have been restated for this reorganization. Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue increased fiscal year primarily due unit volume increases major product lines, especially Windows Mobile software sales and Windows Embedded operating systems. Increased revenue for Windows Mobile software was primarily driven increased market demand for phone-enabled devices, partially offset decline shipments for stand-alone PDAs. fiscal year , revenue for Windows Mobile software increased $ million % while revenue for Windows Embedded operating systems increased $ million %, which was primarily due the product being included new product designs for both new and existing customers. Unit volume increases major product lines drove revenue growth for fiscal year over fiscal PAGE Part Item year , primarily driven increased market demand for phone-enabled devices, and increased growth shipments for standalone PDAs. fiscal year , revenue for Windows Mobile software increased $ million % and revenue for Windows Embedded operating systems increased $ million %. Unit volume increases major product lines drove revenue growth for fiscal year over fiscal year , primarily driven increased market demand for phone-enabled devices, and increased growth shipments for standalone PDAs. Mobile and Embedded Devices generated operating income for fiscal year opposed the operating loss fiscal year primarily due increased revenue, partially offset $ million % increase both research and development and general and administrative expenses. Headcount-related costs increased % reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. The operating loss for fiscal year decreased compared fiscal year primarily due $ million decrease stock-based compensation, well the growth revenue and decrease sales and marketing expense. This improvement was partially offset increased salary and benefit costs from increased headcount, and increased investment research and development. Home and Entertainment ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ ( , ) ( )% % Home and Entertainment includes the Microsoft Xbox video game console system, games, CPxG (consumer software and hardware products), and platform products for the interactive television industry. The success video game consoles determined console innovation, the portfolio video game content for the console, online offerings, and the market share the console. Our Xbox business transitioning new console, the Xbox , which launched the second quarter fiscal year . believe that the functionality our new console, games portfolio, and online offerings are well-positioned relative forthcoming competitive consoles. also believe launching advance competitive consoles will provide strategic advantage for the long-term success Xbox . Revenue from the first generation Xbox products has declined and expected continue decline result the introduction Xbox . Home and Entertainment revenue increased fiscal year primarily due the launch the Xbox console partially offset decline first party Xbox game sales primarily resulting from the significant impact Halo fiscal year . sold approximately million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . The revenue growth was also attributable $ million % growth from our other product lines, primarily result increase games sales due significant new game releases, especially \x93Age Empires III\x94, and increase MSTV revenue due deployments fiscal year . Revenue increased fiscal year primarily due significant new product launches, which resulted $ million % increase Xbox revenue. Halo was introduced the second quarter fiscal year and generated over $ million revenue fiscal year . Revenue from consumer hardware and software, games, and platforms declined $ million % compared fiscal year due lower games software sales. Home and Entertainment operating loss increased fiscal year primarily result $ billion increase cost revenue resulting from the number Xbox consoles sold and higher Xbox unit costs, partially offset the revenue growth. Our fiscal year operating loss increased due the significant impact Halo fiscal year . Headcount-related costs increased % reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. The fiscal year operating loss decreased primarily due increase high margin Xbox software sales, lower Xbox console units costs, $ million lower- -cost- -market inventory adjustment recorded fiscal year , and $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense. The decrease was partially offset increase costs associated with Xbox console development and related launch efforts. PAGE Part Item Corporate-Level Activity ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Corporate-level expenses $ , $ , $ , ( )% ( )% Certain corporate-level expenses are not allocated our segments. Those expenses primarily include corporate operations related broad-based sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, information technology, corporate development and procurement activities, research and development and other costs, and legal settlements and contingencies. Corporate-level expenses decreased fiscal year , primarily reflecting $ million decrease costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies partially offset $ million increase headcount-related costs. incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year including settlement expense $ million related our settlement with RealNetworks, Inc. well other intellectual property and antitrust matters, and the \x80 million ($ million) fine imposed the European Commission July related its decision its competition law investigation Microsoft, compared $ billion legal charges incurred during the prior year primarily related settlements with Novell, Inc., Gateway, IBM, and other antitrust and competition law matters. Headcount-related costs increased % during the twelve months ended June , reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation. Corporate-level expenses decreased fiscal year , primarily result $ million reduction stock-based compensation expense and decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. fiscal year , recognized $ billion legal charges compared $ billion fiscal year which included $ billion charge for settlement with the Sun Microsystems, Inc., and the fine \x80 million ($ million) imposed the European Commission. Change Financial Reporting Structure July , , announced that effective the first quarter fiscal year , will report our businesses under five operating segments, reflecting completion the previously announced changes our organizational structure and how will manage our business beginning fiscal year . Each the five segments will organized under one the three operating divisions announced earlier fiscal year : \x95 Platforms and Services Division \x95 Microsoft Business Division \x95 Entertainment and Devices Division The five operating segments are described below. The first three these will comprise the Platforms and Services Division. Client will include the former Client segment. Products will include Windows Professional and Home, Media Center Edition, Tablet Edition, and other standard Windows operating systems. Server and Tools will include the former Server and Tools segment, excluding the Exchange Server business and certain client access licenses related products residing the Microsoft Business Division. Products will include the Windows Server operating system, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Consulting Services, product support services, Visual Studio, System Center products, the Forefront security family products, and Biz Talk Server, among others. Online Services Business will include the former MSN segment and Windows Live. Products will include MSN Search, MapPoint, MSN Internet Access, MSN Premium Web Services, MSN Mobile Services, and Windows Live. Microsoft Business Division will include the former Information Worker and Microsoft Business Solutions segments, well the Exchange Server business and certain client access licenses, formerly included the Server and Tools segment. Products will include Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint Portal Server CAL, Microsoft Live Meeting, One Note, Office Communication Server, Microsoft Dynamics , Microsoft PAGE Part Item Dynamics CRM, Microsoft Dynamics , Microsoft Dynamics NAV, Microsoft Dynamics , Microsoft Dynamics Retail Management System, Microsoft Partner Program, and Microsoft Office Small Business Accounting. Entertainment and Devices Division will include the former Home and Entertainment and Mobile and Embedded Devices segments. Products will include Xbox , Xbox, Xbox Live, CPxG (consumer software and hardware products), IPTV, Windows Mobile software platform, Windows Embedded device operating system, and Windows Automotive. Our historical results under this new segmentation for the four quarters fiscal years and were follows: Revenue For the quarter ended For the quarter ended ( millions) September , December , March , June , Fiscal Year September , December , March , June , Fiscal Year Segments Client $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , , , , , , , , Online Services Business , , Microsoft Business Division , , , , , , , , , , Entertainment and Devices , , , , , , Total revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating Income / (Loss) For the quarter ended For the quarter ended ( millions) September , December , March , June , Fiscal Year September , December , March , June , Fiscal Year Segments Client $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Online Services Business ( ) ( ) ( ) Microsoft Business Division , , , , , , , , , , Entertainment and Devices ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( , ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate-Level Activity ( , ) ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Our outlook for fiscal year based the five operating segments follows: Client expect revenue grow reflecting improvement the commercial and retail portion the business due our upcoming launch Windows Vista. expect revenue generated from OEMs grow slower than the hardware market due increased concentration among larger OEMs, consumer hardware shipments growing faster than business shipments, and relatively faster growth emerging markets. expect shipments grow % % for fiscal year . believe that unit growth rates will higher the consumer segment than the business segment and higher emerging markets than mature markets. Server and Tools expect continued momentum from recent product launches and the expansion our products security, management and designer tools will help drive our overall revenue growth fiscal year . estimate overall server hardware unit shipments will grow % % fiscal year . However, face competition from Linux-based, Unix, and other server operating systems well competition server applications. PAGE Part Item Online Services Business expect increased growth display advertising revenue the portals, channels, and communications services continue expand globally and the overall Internet advertising industry continues expand. Our search revenue expected grow fiscal year result continued ramp adCenter. expect revenue from narrowband Internet Access continue decline fiscal year . Microsoft Business Division expect Microsoft Business Division revenue grow fiscal year . feel that our customers\x92 continued preference purchase annuity contracts indicates enthusiasm for the Microsoft Office system. also expect continued demand for our Dynamics products, building the fiscal momentum. Entertainment and Devices Division expect revenue increase from fiscal year due the increased availability the Xbox console unit during the entire fiscal year, including the second holiday season after the launch fiscal year . fiscal year , expect introduce music and entertainment device, the first new family hardware and software products for the consumer market. The availability commercial IPTV product expected drive significant growth MSTV revenue across several geographies. Revenue from existing mobility and embedded devices expected increase due unit volume increases Windows Mobile software driven increased market demand for phone-enabled devices and Windows Embedded operating systems. Short product life cycles product lines such Windows Mobile software may impact our continuing revenue streams. Xbox console unit costs are expected decline. implement our long-term growth strategy, expect increase our level spending four key areas fiscal year : increased product costs associated with Xbox consoles; marketing and field sales spending including launch costs; quickening the pace development growth areas such business intelligence, security, management and unified communications (including acquisitions); and increased costs execute our online services strategy. While these investments will translate into increased operating expenses fiscal year , believe they will help lay the groundwork for future growth and profitability. Operating Expenses Cost Revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Cost revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( )% percent revenue % % % 2ppt ( )ppt Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. Cost revenue fiscal year increased mainly due $ billion increase Home and Entertainment result increase the number total Xbox consoles sold and higher Xbox unit costs. Cost revenue fiscal year decreased due $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense, $ million reduction costs associated with decrease the MSN Internet Access subscriber base, and $ million reduction other product costs mainly due Xbox consoles cost efficiency, partially offset increased costs product support and consulting services costs. Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Research and development $ , $ , $ , % ( )% percent revenue % % % \x96ppt ( )ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Research and development expenses also PAGE Part Item include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Research and development costs increased during fiscal year primarily due increased development costs associated with new and upcoming offerings such MSN adCenter, the Microsoft Office system, Windows Vista, Xbox , and corporate research activities. Headcount-related costs increased % during fiscal year reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Our research and development expenses decreased fiscal year due $ billion decrease stock-based compensation expense. This expense decline was partially offset increased headcount and product development costs associated with the Xbox console and related games, SQL Server , Windows Vista, and product development Mobile and Embedded Devices. Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Sales and marketing $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % \x96ppt \x96ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased during fiscal year primarily due increased headcount-related costs, investments partner marketing and product launch-related spending. Headcount-related costs increased % during fiscal year reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. For fiscal year , sales and marketing expense increased slightly due $ million higher headcount-related costs from increased headcount and general salary increases; higher sales and marketing costs driven product planning, reseller marketing, and advertising campaign costs mainly related launch the \x93Start Something\x94 campaign; launch \x93Halo \x94; and launch arrangements for Xbox . The increase was offset mainly $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense. General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus General and administrative $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % ( )ppt ( )ppt General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense and other headcount-related costs associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources, other administrative headcount, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative costs decreased fiscal year primarily reflecting decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year compared $ billion legal charges incurred during fiscal year . Headcount-related costs increased % during the twelve months ended June , reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative costs decreased fiscal year primarily reflecting decreased stock-based compensation expense and decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. fiscal year , recognized $ million stock-based compensation expense compared $ million fiscal year . fiscal year , recognized $ billion legal charges compared $ billion fiscal year . PAGE Part Item Investment Income and Other The components investment income and other were follows: ( millions) Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Income/(losses) from equity investees and other ( ) Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , For fiscal year , dividends and interest income increased due higher interest rates received our fixed-income investments, partially offset decline the average balance dividend and interest-bearing investments result the $ billion special dividend paid December , , and stock repurchases made throughout fiscal year . Dividends and interest income declined $ million fiscal year due the combination greater allocation funds lower yielding, more liquid asset classes preparation for the $ billion special dividend paid December , , and lower portfolio balance following payment the special dividend. For fiscal year , net recognized gains investments were comprised net gains sales equity investments, net losses sales fixed-income investments and other-than-temporary impairments both equity and fixed-income investments. Net recognized gains decreased fiscal year primarily due increased net losses sales fixed-income investments, higher other-than-temporary impairments and fewer net gains equity investments the current period compared fiscal year . For fiscal year , other-than-temporary impairments were $ million, compared $ million fiscal year . The increase other-than-temporary impairments fiscal year was driven planned sales certain investments unrealized loss position order raise funds for the $ billion tender offer announced July , . Net gains investments declined $ million fiscal year primarily due greater sales investments the previous fiscal year preparation for the special dividend paid December , . Net gains investments also include other-than-temporary impairments $ million fiscal year compared $ million fiscal year . Net realized gains sales were $ billion fiscal year moved more liquid investment asset classes. Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other than temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other than temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities enhance investment income. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. use derivative instruments manage exposures interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency markets and facilitate portfolio diversification. Net losses derivatives were follows: ( millions) Net gain/(losses) equity derivatives $ $ ( ) $ Net gains commodity derivatives \x96 Net losses interest rate derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Net losses foreign currency contracts ( ) ( ) ( ) Net losses derivatives $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) During fiscal year , experienced lower net losses derivatives compared fiscal year primarily due net gains non-designated equity derivatives the current fiscal year compared net losses the prior PAGE Part Item fiscal year and higher net gains commodity positions the current fiscal year driven increases the related commodity indices. These gains were partially offset higher net losses time value foreign exchange contracts used hedge anticipated foreign currency revenues and higher net losses interest rate derivative contracts. The net gains equity derivatives during fiscal year are primarily due changes the market value non-designated equity derivatives. Gains and losses arising from non-designated derivatives are economically offset unrealized losses and gains, respectively, the underlying equity securities which are recorded component other comprehensive income. Commodity derivatives are held for the purpose portfolio diversification. Net losses related foreign currency contracts relate primarily changes time value options used hedge anticipated foreign currency revenues. Additionally, net gains and losses foreign exchange contracts include the changes the fair value derivatives used economic hedges. These gains and losses are partially offset economically unrealized losses and gains, respectively, the underlying assets which are included other comprehensive income Net derivative losses fiscal year were primarily related losses equity derivatives, interest rate derivatives, and foreign currency contracts. During fiscal year , losses related equity derivatives used economically hedge against decline equity prices were $ million and losses related interest rate derivatives were $ million. These losses were offset the combination realized gains sales securities and unrealized gains related increases the market value the underlying assets included component other comprehensive income. Net losses related foreign currency contracts were $ million, related changes time value options used hedge anticipated foreign currency revenues and economically hedging foreign currency based investment exposures. Losses related hedging foreign currency-based investment exposures were offset unrealized gains the underlying assets which are included other comprehensive income. Net losses derivatives also included gains related commodity positions used provide portfolio diversification. Gains commodity positions were $ million during fiscal year . Derivative losses were $ million fiscal year primarily due net losses time value foreign exchange contracts used hedge anticipated foreign currency revenues. the second quarter fiscal year , entered into agreement with NBC Universal, Inc. (\x93NBC\x94) that restructured our joint venture relationships for MSNBC Cable . (\x93CJV\x94) and MSNBC Interactive News, . (\x93IJV\x94). result, divested % CJV for $ million and NBC acquired the right, exercisable the following two years, buy the remaining % interest. addition, modified our agreement with NBC grant IJV . content license and remove the exclusivity obligation both NBC and Microsoft for local and non- . news content. part the MSNBC restructuring agreements, paid $ million fee effectively terminate IJV\x92 prior content license agreement and also prepaid the remaining $ million license fee NBC. the fourth quarter fiscal year , NBC exercised its option buy our remaining % interest CJV. For fiscal year , recognized net gain $ million related the above transactions. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for fiscal year was % compared % for fiscal year . During fiscal year , recorded tax benefit $ million from the resolution state audits. The increased rate fiscal year resulted primarily from the European Commission fine \x80 million ($ million) which not tax deductible, and lower rate fiscal year result reversal $ million previously accrued taxes upon settling Internal Revenue Service examination for fiscal year \x96 and tax benefit $ million generated the decision repatriate foreign subsidiary earnings under temporary incentive provided the American Jobs Creation Act . Our effective tax rate for fiscal year was %. Financial Condition Cash and equivalents and short-term investments totaled $ billion and $ billion June , , and , respectively. This investment portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly .-dollar-denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. Equity and other investments were $ billion and $ billion June , , and , respectively. result the special dividend paid the second quarter fiscal year and shares repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $ billion June , . Our retained deficit not expected impact our future ability operate pay dividends given our continuing profitability and strong cash and financial position. PAGE Part Item Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, that are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. For certain other licensing arrangements revenue attributable undelivered elements, including free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the life cycle the related product. Other unearned revenue includes services, Platform, Microsoft Business Solutions, advertising, and subscriptions for which have been paid upfront and earn the revenue when provide the service software otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. Unearned revenue June , , increased $ billion from June , , reflecting additions unearned revenue from multi-year licensing that outpaced recognitions $ billion, $ million decrease revenue deferred for undelivered elements, and $ million increase primarily unearned revenue for services and subscription services. The following table outlines the expected recognition $ billion unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Recognition Unearned Revenue Three months ended: September , $ , December , , March , , June , , Thereafter , Unearned revenue $ , Cash Flows Cash flow from operations for fiscal year decreased % $ billion primarily due increased payments fund $ million increase inventory and product costs related Xbox and increased payments employees resulting from % growth headcount. These factors were partially offset increased cash receipts from customers driven our % revenue growth and $ billion increase unearned revenue. Cash used financing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from the previous year driven $ billion reduction cash dividend payments. This impact was partially offset $ billion increase common stock repurchases. Net cash from investing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from fiscal year driven primarily $ billion decrease cash from combined purchase, sales, and maturities investments and $ million increase additions property and equipment. These factors were partially offset $ billion cash proceeds from our securities lending program. Cash flow from operations for fiscal year increased % $ billion primarily due increase cash receipts from customers driven our % revenue growth combined with % increase unearned revenue. Cash payments fiscal year resulting from significant legal settlements were approximately $ billion lower than the previous year, adding the overall increase operating cash flow. Partially offsetting these factors were increased payments employees resulting from % increase full-time employees. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , driven $ billion cash dividends paid fiscal year compared $ billion paid fiscal year . The increase was also partially driven $ billion cash used for common stock repurchases, increase $ billion cash used for share repurchases compared the previous year, reflecting million shares repurchased fiscal year , increase million shares compared the previous year. Net cash from investing was $ billion fiscal year , increase $ billion from fiscal year , primarily due $ billion increase investment maturities that occurred fund cash dividends paid fiscal year , partially offset $ billion decrease cash from combined investment purchase and sale activity. PAGE Part Item Cash flow from operations for fiscal year decreased $ billion $ billion. The decrease primarily reflects the combined cash outflows $ billion related the Sun Microsystems settlement and the European Commission fine partially offset increased cash receipts from customers driven the rise revenue billings. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from the previous year. The decrease reflects that did not repurchase common stock the fourth quarter fiscal year combined with $ million increase primarily from stock issuances related employee stock options exercises, partially offset $ million increase cash dividends paid. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal year . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from fiscal year . have material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment under which incurred rental expense totaling $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal year , and , respectively. have issued residual value guarantees connection with various operating leases. These guarantees provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. fiscal year , our Board Directors declared $ per share cash dividends, with $ billion paid June , . quarterly dividend $ per share ( $ million) was declared our Board Directors June , paid shareholders record August , , September , . July , , announced the completion the repurchase program initially approved our Board Directors July , buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. The repurchases were made using our cash resources. During fiscal year , repurchased million shares, $ billion, our common stock under this plan. July , , also announced that our Board Directors authorized new share repurchase programs, comprised $ billion tender offer which was completed August , , and additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program with expiration June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares our common stock, approximately % the common shares outstanding, for approximately $ billion price per share $ . August , , announced that the authorization for the ongoing share repurchase program, previously announced July , , had been increased approximately $ billion. result, the company authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . believe existing cash and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements, quarterly dividends and planned share repurchases. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and short-term investments, and equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. regularly assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements provide indemnifications varying scope and amount certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, interpreted FASB Interpretation . (\x93FIN\x94) , Guarantor\x92 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees Indebtedness Others . consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the PAGE Part Item ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any material liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) ( ) Payments due period Fiscal Years - - and thereafter Total Long-term debt $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 Construction commitments ( )( ) \x96 \x96 \x96 Lease obligations: Capital leases \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Operating leases ( ) Purchase commitments ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Other long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 Total contractual obligations $ , $ $ $ $ , ( ) have excluded the $ million long-term contingent liability related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits referred Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements the timing and amount resolved cash versus vouchers subject uncertainty. ( ) have certain commitments for the construction buildings. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Our future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases comprise the majority the operating lease obligations presented above. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) The amount presented above purchase and construction commitments includes all known open purchase orders and all known contracts that are take- -pay contracts. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and our cash flows from operations. ( ) have excluded other obligations $ billion from other long-term liabilities presented above the amount that will settled cash not known. have also excluded unearned revenue $ billion. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS November , the FASB issued Staff Position (\x93FSP\x94) FAS123( )- , Transition Election Accounting for the Tax Effects Share-Based Payment Awards. This FSP requires entity follow either the transition guidance for the additional-paid- -capital pool prescribed SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment , the alternative transition method described the FSP. entity that adopts SFAS . ( ) using the modified prospective application may make one-time election adopt the transition method described this FSP. entity may take one year from the later its initial adoption SFAS . ( ) the effective date this FSP evaluate its available transition alternatives and make its one-time election. elected adopt the transition method described the FSP July , . This method change did not have impact our financial statements. June , the FASB issued FIN . , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . , which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty income taxes recognized enterprise\x92 financial statements accordance with FASB Statement . , Accounting for Income Taxes. The interpretation prescribes recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement tax position taken expected taken tax return. FIN . requires recognition tax benefits that satisfy greater than % probability threshold. FIN . also provides guidance derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting interim periods, disclosure, and transition. FIN . effective for beginning July , . are assessing the potential impact that the adoption FIN . will have our financial statements. PAGE Part Item June , the FASB ratified the Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) consensus EITF Issue . - , \x93 Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits Pursuant FASB Statement . \x94. EITF Issue . - requires companies accrue the costs compensated absences under sabbatical similar benefit arrangement over the requisite service period. EITF Issue . - effective for beginning July , . The cumulative effect the application this consensus prior period results should recognized through cumulative-effect adjustment retained earnings the beginning the year adoption. Elective retrospective application also permitted. are currently evaluating the financial impact this guidance and the method adoption that will used. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, accounting for income taxes, and accounting for stock-based compensation. account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants Statement Position (\x93SOP\x94) - , Software Revenue Recognition . The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94) fair value exists for those elements. Customers receive certain elements our products over period time. These elements include free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, the fair value which recognized over the product\x92 estimated life cycle. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities , and SEC SAB , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities , provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry, and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (July for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This requires significant judgments including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. allocate goodwill reporting units based the reporting unit expected benefit from the combination. evaluate our reporting units annual basis and necessary, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. PAGE Part Item account for research and development costs accordance with several accounting pronouncements, including SFAS . , Accounting for Research and Development Costs , and SFAS . , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . SFAS . specifies that costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product should charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established have not been material, and accordingly, have expensed all research and development costs when incurred. The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, requires that estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial position our results operations. SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows. Accruals for tax contingencies are provided for accordance with the requirements SFAS . . account for stock-based compensation accordance with SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment . Under the fair value recognition provisions this statement, share-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the value the award and recognized expense over the vesting period. Determining the fair value share-based awards the grant date requires judgment, including estimating expected dividends. addition, judgment also required estimating the amount share-based awards that are expected forfeited. actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results operations could materially impacted. PAGE Part Item Statement Management\x92 Responsibility for Financial Statements Management responsible for the preparation the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based management\x92 estimates and judgments, have been prepared conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. The Company maintains accounting and internal control systems provide reasonable assurance reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented written policies, organizational structure providing division responsibilities, careful selection and training qualified personnel and program internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent auditors, audit and render opinion the consolidated financial statements and management\x92 report its assessment and the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely independent directors the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors and our independent auditors ensure that each meeting its responsibilities and discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access the Audit Committee. Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer PAGE Part Item ', 'item 7a. ': '', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x94 and \x93Item . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x96 Critical Accounting Policies\x94 this report. operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure make our pricing structure uniform might PAGE Part Item require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. Operations outside the United States may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor economic conditions specific country region; and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations. While hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. General economic and geo-political risks may affect our revenue and profitability. Inflation, softness corporate information technology spending, other changes general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenue our investment portfolio. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries generally and could require changes our operations and security arrangements, thus increasing our operating costs. These conditions may lend additional uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. are highly automated business and disruption failure our systems the event major earthquake, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales and providing services. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could severely affect our ability conduct normal business operations and, result, our future operating results could adversely affected. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that don\x92 realize satisfactory return the investment make, that may experience difficulty the integration new employees, business systems, and technology, diversion management\x92 attention from our other businesses. These factors could adversely affect our operating results financial condition. have limited insurance. maintain third party insurance coverage against various liability risks and risks property loss. Because the unavailability high cost conventional insurance arrangements, have entered into captive insurance arrangements for the purpose protecting against possible catastrophic and other risks not covered traditional insurance markets. June , , the face value captive insurance arrangements was $ billion. Actual value any particular time will vary due deductibles, exclusions, other restrictions, and claims. While believe these arrangements are effective way insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with the risks discussed this report other events could exceed the coverage provided such arrangements. Improper disclosure personal data could result liability and harm our reputation. store and process significant amounts personally identifiable information offer large array products and services our customers. possible that our security controls over personal data, our training employees and vendors data security, and other practices follow may not prevent the improper disclosure personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting increased costs loss revenue. Our software products also enable our customers store and process personal data. Perceptions that our products not adequately protect the privacy personal information could inhibit sales our products. Other risks that may affect our business. Other factors that may affect our performance may include: \x95 sales channel disruption, such the bankruptcy major distributor; \x95 our ability implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth; \x95 the continued availability third-party distribution channels for MSN service and other online offerings; and \x95 disruption our operations result weather-related events. PAGE Part Item , , , ITEM . UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS have received written comments regarding our periodic current reports from the staff the SEC that were issued days more preceding the end our fiscal year that remain unresolved. ITEM . PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington: million square feet owned space that situated approximately acres land own our corporate campus and approximately million square feet space lease. own approximately , square feet office building space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately million square feet that leased and approximately , square feet that owned. These facilities include our European Operations Center that leases , square foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and , square foot facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; Reading, England , square feet; and Mississauga, Canada , square feet. addition the above locations, have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described \x93Operations\x94 above. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. own acres land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet office space and have agreement with the City Redmond under which may develop additional million square feet facilities our campus Redmond, Washington. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS May , , the Korean Fair Trade Commission (\x93KFTC\x94) denied our motion for reconsideration the formal written ruling against its competition law investigation the company. part its decision, however, the KFTC dropped the requirement prohibiting from including Windows Media Player Windows Messenger, any feature with similar functionality, any product other than the Windows client operating system for which have % greater market share. Our request stay the KFTC corrective order was denied July , . Our appeal the KFTC\x92 decision the Seoul High Court still pending. July , , the European Commission announced its determination that had not complied with the technical documentation requirements its Decision against , and levied fine \x80 million ($ million). intend appeal this fine the Court First Instance. have completed the written and oral procedures our appeal the Commission\x92 underlying March decision finding Microsoft violation European competition law and accompanying \x80 million ($ million) fine and are awaiting decision the Court First Instance. See Note \x96 Contingencies \x93Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x94 for information regarding other legal proceedings which are involved. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal year . PAGE Part Item PART ITEM . MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding dividends approved our Board Directors fiscal years and . July , , announced the completion the repurchase program approved our Board Directors July , , buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. The repurchases were made using our cash resources. repurchased common stock each quarter fiscal year follows: Period Total number shares purchased Average price paid per share July , \x96 September , , , $ October , \x96 December , , , $ January , \x96 March , , , $ April , \x96 June , , , $ Common stock repurchases the fourth quarter fiscal year were follows: Period ( ) Total number shares purchased ( ) Average price paid per share ( ) Total number shares purchased part publicly announced plans programs ( ) Maximum number shares ( approximate dollar value) shares that may yet purchased under the plans programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , , , $ , , $ , May , \x96 May , , , $ , , $ , June , \x96 June , , , $ , , $ , , , , , July , , announced that our Board Directors authorized two new share repurchase programs: $ billion tender offer which was completed August , ; and authorization for additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program with expiration June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares common stock, % our common shares outstanding, for approximately $ billion price per share $ . PAGE Part Item , August , , announced that the authorization for the ongoing share repurchase program, previously announced July , , had been increased approximately $ billion. result, the company authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Fiscal Year Ended June Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ \x96 Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Long-term obligations , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , PAGE Part Item ITEM . MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS , , AND OVERVIEW The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis (\x93 & \x94) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes the financial statements (\x93Notes\x94). develop, manufacture, license, and support wide range software products for many computing devices. Our software products include operating systems for servers, PCs, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; and software development tools. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify system integrators and developers. sell the Xbox video game console and games, games, and peripherals. Online communication and information services are delivered through our MSN portals and channels around the world. Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest the second quarter our fiscal year due corporate calendar year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers. Our Home and Entertainment segment particularly subject seasonality its products are aimed the consumer market and are highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Typically, Home and Entertainment has generated over % its yearly segment revenues our second fiscal quarter. believe the seasonality revenue likely continue the future. intend sustain the long-term growth our businesses through technological innovation, engineering excellence, and commitment delivering high-quality products and services customers and partners. Recognizing that one our primary challenges help accelerate worldwide adoption and software upgrades, continue advance the functionality, security, and value Windows operating systems. also are increasing our focus emerging markets and reducing the amount unlicensed software those markets. addition, continue develop innovative software applications and solutions that believe will enhance the productivity information workers, improve communication and collaboration work groups, aid business intelligence, and streamline processes for small and mid-sized businesses. sustain the growth our Server and Tools business amid competition from other vendors both proprietary and open source software, our goal deliver products that provide the best platform for network computing \x96 the easiest deploy and manage and most secure \x96 with the lowest total cost ownership. continue invest research and development existing and new lines business, including business solutions, mobile computing, communication, entertainment, and others that believe may contribute our long-term growth. also research and develop advanced technologies for future software products. believe that delivering innovative and high-value solutions through our integrated platform the key meeting customer needs and our future growth. believe that over the last few years have laid foundation for long-term growth delivering innovative products, creating opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction with key audiences, putting some our most significant legal cases behind , and improving our internal business processes. Our focus fiscal year building this foundation and executing well key areas, including continuing innovate our integrated software platform, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and continuing focus internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability across the company. Key market opportunities include: \x95 Strengthening core businesses through new product launches, upgrades, making inroads against software piracy, and extending accessibility new consumers emerging markets. \x95 Succeeding adjacent businesses offering extensions our technologies targeted towards specific customer needs \x96 either new products higher-value versions existing products. \x95 Entering new markets redefine how people create, deliver, and experience entertainment. \x95 Delivering software services through online consumer services and services for businesses that enable workers collaborate interactively. PAGE Part Item Worldwide macroeconomic factors have strong correlation business and consumer demand for our software, services, games and Internet service offerings. expect broad continuation the economic conditions and demand fiscal year compared fiscal year . open source software development and distribution evolves, continue seek differentiate our products from competing products that are based open source software. believe that Microsoft\x92 share server unit operating systems increased fiscal year . Summary Results for Fiscal Years , , and ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Our revenue growth for fiscal year was driven primarily growth SQL Server following the launch SQL Server the second quarter, Windows Server and other server applications, increased Xbox revenue resulting from the Xbox launch the second quarter, growth licensing Windows client operating systems through OEMs, and increased licensing Office and other Information Worker products. Based our estimates, total worldwide shipments from all sources grew approximately % % and total server hardware shipments grew approximately % % during fiscal year . Foreign currency exchange rates did not have significant impact consolidated operating segment revenue during the fiscal year. Revenue growth for fiscal year was driven growth licensing Windows Server operating systems and other server applications, licensing Windows client operating systems through OEMs, and increased licensing Office and other Information Worker products. The November launch the \x93Halo \x94 Xbox game also contributed overall revenue growth for the company. Total worldwide shipments from all sources grew approximately % % and total server hardware shipments grew approximately % % during fiscal year compared fiscal year . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive , primarily due relative strengthening most foreign currencies, particularly the euro and Japanese yen, against the . dollar. Partially offsetting revenue growth rates was $ billion decline earned revenue from Upgrade Advantage fiscal year . This revenue was recognized over fiscal year and fiscal year and the first quarter fiscal year when the contract period expired. Fiscal year revenue growth was primarily driven the growth licensing Windows client operating systems through OEMs, Windows Server operating systems, Office and other server applications result growth and server hardware shipments. The worldwide shipment growth rate from all sources was estimated % and the Windows server shipment was estimated % fiscal year compared fiscal year . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive fiscal year due relative strengthening most foreign currencies versus the . dollar. This resulted approximately $ billion growth total revenue. Operating income for fiscal year increased primarily reflecting the revenue increase and $ million decrease costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. These changes were partially offset $ billion increase cost revenue primarily related Xbox and $ billion increase sales and marketing expense primarily result increased investments partner marketing and product launch-related spending. Headcount-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, increased $ million % resulting from both increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount and % growth headcount over the past twelve months. Stock-based compensation expense decreased $ million % reflecting continuing decline stock option amortization expense. Operating income increased fiscal year due decline stock-based compensation expense; increased revenue Server and Tools, Client and Information Worker, which have higher gross margins compared other segments; and reduction legal costs associated with major litigation. addition, strong sales Halo reduced the overall operating loss for the Home and Entertainment segment for fiscal year . The $ billion decrease stock-based compensation expense was partially offset increased operating expenses $ million related increased salary and benefits for new and existing headcount. General and administrative expenses related major litigation declined fiscal year due the $ billion charges related the settlement Sun PAGE Part Item Microsystems litigation and the fine imposed the European Commission fiscal year . This effect was partially offset legal expenses $ billion related settlements with IBM, Novell, Gateway, and end-user class action plaintiffs resolve antitrust issues and other matters. fiscal year , the operating income decline was caused primarily $ billion legal charges and $ billion stock-based compensation expense related our employee stock option transfer program, mainly offset increase revenue. implemented changes employee compensation fiscal year whereby employees are granted stock awards rather than stock options. also completed employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year which employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested stock options with strike price $ higher JPMorgan Chase Bank (\x93JPMorgan\x94). The unvested options that were transferred JPMorgan became vested upon the transfer. total million the million eligible options were transferred, which resulted additional stock-based compensation expense $ billion the second quarter fiscal year . result these changes, stock-based compensation expense decreased fiscal years and , and expect stock-based compensation expense related stock options continue decrease fiscal year . Fiscal Year Outlook fiscal year , expect continued double digit revenue growth primarily result the upcoming launches Windows Vista and the Microsoft Office system. estimate worldwide shipments will grow between % and %. expect that unit growth rates will higher the consumer segment than the business segment and higher emerging markets than mature markets. estimate worldwide server unit shipments will grow between % and % fiscal year compared fiscal year . not expect significant impact from year-over-year foreign currency exchange rates fiscal year . expect our operating income growth rate lag our revenue growth rate the first half fiscal year due increasing mix Xbox console revenue and related costs, coupled with significant investments preparation for the launches our flagship products. expect this trend reverse the second half the fiscal year when expect operating income grow faster than revenue. SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) Our seven segments were Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. July , , announced change our operating segments reflecting the culmination our realignment announced September . These changes will effective for fiscal year ; the seven segments discussed this analysis are presented the way internally managed and monitored performance the business group level fiscal years , , and . The revenue and operating income/(loss) amounts this section are presented basis consistent with . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\x93GAAP\x94) and include certain reconciling items attributable each the segments. The segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements presented basis consistent with the Company\x92 internal management reporting, accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . Certain corporate level expenses have been excluded from our segment operating results and are analyzed separately. Fiscal years and amounts have been restated for certain internal reorganizations and conform the fiscal year presentation. Client ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % PAGE Part Item Client consists premium edition operating systems, including Windows Professional, Media Center Edition, Tablet Edition, and other standard Windows operating systems, including Windows Home. Premium offerings are Windows operating systems sold premium above Windows Home. Client revenue growth correlates with the growth purchases PCs from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. Client revenue increased fiscal year reflecting $ billion % growth OEM revenue driven % growth OEM license units from increased unit shipments, partially offset $ million % decrease revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems. During the year, the mix OEM Windows operating systems licensed with premium edition operating systems percentage total OEM Windows operating systems licensed (\x93OEM Premium Mix\x94) increased two percentage points %. OEM revenue growth included increase revenue $ million resulting from the alignment our billings associated with OEM distributors our system builder channel with both industry standards and other Microsoft channels. The differences between unit growth rates and revenue growth rates from year year are affected changes the OEM Premium Mix, changes the geographical mix, and the channel mix products sold large, multi-national OEMs versus those sold local and regional system builders. Client revenue increased fiscal year driven % growth OEM license units and $ million % growth OEM revenue from increased unit shipments, partially offset $ million % decrease revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems. The OEM Premium Mix remained flat % total OEM Windows operating systems compared the previous year. Revenue earned from Upgrade Advantage declined $ million fiscal year contributing the decrease commercial and retail licensing revenue. Client operating income increased fiscal year reflecting the increase OEM revenue partially offset $ million increase sales and marketing expenses, excluding headcount-related costs, mainly driven increased investments partner marketing and Windows Vista pre-launch programs. Headcount-related costs increased % fiscal year reflecting both % increase headcount primarily associated with Windows Vista and further investments our sales and marketing organization, and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Client operating income increased fiscal year primarily due increase OEM revenue and $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense. These factors were partially offset increase sales and marketing expenses associated with \x93Start Something,\x94 globally launched advertising campaign, marketing for security initiatives, and increase salary and benefits for new and existing headcount. The additional headcount for research and development was primarily devoted the continued development Windows Vista. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Server and Tools consists server software licenses and client access licenses (\x93CAL\x94) for Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Exchange Server and other server products. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier and Professional product support services, and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server and Tools concentrates licensing products, applications, tools, content and services that make information technology professionals and developers more productive and efficient. The segment uses multiple channels for licensing including pre-installed OEM versions, licenses through partners, and licenses directly end customers. The licenses are sold both one-time licenses and multi-year volume licenses. Server and Tools uses product innovation and partnerships with information technology professionals drive the adoption and sales growth its products. Server and Tools revenue increased during fiscal year mainly driven growth SQL Server, Windows Server, and Core CAL. SQL Server and Visual Studio were launched the second quarter fiscal year and produced revenue growth these product lines. Revenue impacted overall server hardware shipments which estimate grew % % fiscal year . Server and Server applications revenue, including CAL revenue, and developer tools, training and certification revenue grew $ billion % during fiscal year . The results reflect broad adoption Windows Server products, especially SQL Server, which grew over % for PAGE Part Item the year. Consulting, Premier and Professional product support services revenue increased $ million % primarily due higher demand for services. fiscal year , Server and Server application revenue, including CAL revenue, grew $ billion %. Consulting, Premier, and Professional product support services revenue increased $ million % compared the previous year. Foreign currency exchange rate changes accounted for $ million three percentage points total Server and Tools revenue growth, which was offset $ million decline Upgrade Advantage revenue earned. Server and Tools operating income increased during fiscal year primarily reflecting increased revenue, partially offset increased sales and marketing expenses. Excluding headcount-related costs, sales and marketing expenses increased $ million due additional spending support long-term strategies and marketing expenses primarily related the launch SQL Server and Visual Studio . Total Server and Tools headcount-related costs increased % related both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. fiscal year , Server and Tools operating income increased primarily due increased revenue and $ billion decrease stock-based compensation expense. This increase was partially offset increase sales and marketing costs and headcount-related costs result increased headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. Information Worker ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Information Worker primarily consists the Microsoft Office system programs, servers, solutions, and services designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. Information Worker includes Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint Portal Server CAL, and other information worker products including Office Communications Server and OneNote. Revenue growth depends the ability add value the core Office product set and expand our product offerings other information worker areas such enterprise content management, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Information Worker revenue increased fiscal year primarily reflecting $ million % increase volume licensing, retail packaged products, and preinstalled versions Office Japan, while OEM revenue increased $ million %. Information Worker revenue increased fiscal year primarily reflecting $ million % increase volume licensing, retail packaged product, and pre-installed versions Office Japan, $ million % increase OEM revenue, and the impact foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset reduced Upgrade Advantage earned revenue. Changes foreign currency exchange rates accounted for approximately $ million three percentage points the revenue growth for fiscal year , offset $ million decline Upgrade Advantage earned revenue. Information Worker operating income increased fiscal year primarily due the revenue growth, partially offset $ million % increase sales and marketing expenses related supporting field sales efforts and $ million % increase research and development expenses. Headcount-related costs increased % during fiscal year reflecting both % increase headcount related supporting field sales efforts and research and development investments future products and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Information Worker operating income growth for fiscal year was primarily due the revenue growth and $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense. Operating expenses were also impacted reduction marketing campaign costs from the previous period associated with the launch Office . This decline was offset increase headcount-related costs result increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. PAGE Part Item Microsoft Business Solutions ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ $ $ % % Operating income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) * % * Not meaningful Microsoft Business Solutions provides business management software solutions targeted businesses varying sizes. The main products consist enterprise resource planning (\x93ERP\x94) solutions, customer relationship management (\x93CRM\x94) software, retail solutions, Microsoft Partner Program (\x93MSPP\x94), and related services. Microsoft Business Solutions also includes the Small and Mid-market Solutions and Partners (\x93SMS& \x94), which focuses sales customers and partners the small and mid-market customer segments. Revenue derived from software and services sales, with software sales representing significant amount total revenue. Software revenues include both new software licenses and enhancement plans, which provide customers with future software upgrades over the period the plan. Our solutions are delivered through worldwide network channel partners that provide services and local support. Microsoft Business Solutions revenue increased fiscal year driven new users for Microsoft CRM and existing Dynamics ERP customers purchasing functionality and user licenses. The increase Microsoft Business Solutions revenue fiscal year was mainly due % revenue growth software partially offset % decline services revenue. The software revenue increase was driven % growth license revenue and % growth enhancement revenue and was attributed growth ERP and CRM solutions and increase MSPP subscriptions. Microsoft Business Solutions operating income increased fiscal year reflecting the increase revenue accompanied $ million decrease sales and marketing expense result decreased net SMS& spending. Headcount-related costs increased % reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Microsoft Business Solutions operating loss declined fiscal year primarily due $ million decline stock-based compensation expense, increase product revenue, and decline amortization acquired intangibles. The reduction operating loss was partially offset net increase sales and marketing expense driven incremental costs the SMS& organization. addition, increased our marketing and product development spending our ERP and CRM portfolios. MSN ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Operating income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ * % * Not meaningful MSN includes personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, and online information offerings, such MSN Search, and the MSN portals and channels around the world. MSN also provides variety online paid services addition MSN Internet Access and MSN Premium Web Services. Revenue derived primarily from advertisers MSN, from consumers and partners through subscriptions and transactions generated from online paid services, and from MSN narrowband Internet access subscribers. fiscal year , launched MSN adCenter \x96 our internally developed advertising platform \x96 certain international markets and throughout the . where now serves percent paid search traffic our online properties. believe MSN adCenter will enable increase both display and search advertising revenues reducing our reliance third parties for delivering ads. Effective July , , functions related MapPoint previously reported Mobile and Embedded PAGE Part Item Devices were moved MSN. Mobile and Embedded Devices and MSN operating results for the prior periods have been restated for this reorganization. announced fiscal year , Windows Live\x99, set Internet services and software designed improve the users\x92 connected experience, including Windows Live\x99 Local and Windows Live Messenger. MSN revenue decreased fiscal year primarily reflecting $ million % decline access revenue, partially offset $ million % increase advertising revenue and $ million % increase revenue from subscription and transaction services other than access. June , , MSN had million access subscribers compared with million June , . addition, MSN had over million active Hotmail accounts and over million active Messenger accounts June , . The increase advertising revenue reflects growth display advertising for portals, channels, email, and messaging services, which was partially offset decline search revenue due the transition adCenter. fiscal year , MSN revenue increased reflecting $ million % growth advertising revenue primarily result industry and market growth and continued growth MSN display advertising revenue and $ million % growth subscription and transaction services revenue. These increases were partially offset the search clarity advertising program, the impact the homepage redesign, and decline $ million % access revenue, driven the continued migration Internet Access subscribers broadband other competitively priced Internet service providers. MSN operating income decreased fiscal year due $ million % increase research and development costs, $ million % increase sales and marketing expenses, and $ million % increase cost revenue continue invest MSN adCenter, Windows Live, and other new platforms. Headcount-related costs increased % reflecting % increase headcount and increased salaries and benefits for existing employees, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation. fiscal year , MSN operating income increased mainly due $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense, reduced costs associated with the Internet Access business, and increased advertising and subscription revenue. Partially offsetting the decreased expenses were increased headcount-related costs result increased headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. Mobile and Embedded Devices ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ $ $ % % Operating income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) * % * Not meaningful Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded operating systems, and Windows Automotive. These products extend the advantages the Windows platform mobile devices such PDAs, phones, and wide range embedded devices. The business also responsible for managing sales and customer relationships for Microsoft overall with device manufacturers and communication sector customers. The communication sector includes network service providers (such wireless, wireline and cable operators) and media and entertainment companies. The market for products these segments intensely competitive. Competitive alternatives vary based product lines and include product offerings from commercial and non-commercial mobile operating system providers, and proprietary software developed OEMs and mobile operators. Effective July , , functions related MapPoint previously reported Mobile and Embedded Devices were moved MSN. Mobile and Embedded Devices and MSN operating results for the prior periods have been restated for this reorganization. Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue increased fiscal year primarily due unit volume increases major product lines, especially Windows Mobile software sales and Windows Embedded operating systems. Increased revenue for Windows Mobile software was primarily driven increased market demand for phone-enabled devices, partially offset decline shipments for stand-alone PDAs. fiscal year , revenue for Windows Mobile software increased $ million % while revenue for Windows Embedded operating systems increased $ million %, which was primarily due the product being included new product designs for both new and existing customers. Unit volume increases major product lines drove revenue growth for fiscal year over fiscal PAGE Part Item year , primarily driven increased market demand for phone-enabled devices, and increased growth shipments for standalone PDAs. fiscal year , revenue for Windows Mobile software increased $ million % and revenue for Windows Embedded operating systems increased $ million %. Unit volume increases major product lines drove revenue growth for fiscal year over fiscal year , primarily driven increased market demand for phone-enabled devices, and increased growth shipments for standalone PDAs. Mobile and Embedded Devices generated operating income for fiscal year opposed the operating loss fiscal year primarily due increased revenue, partially offset $ million % increase both research and development and general and administrative expenses. Headcount-related costs increased % reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. The operating loss for fiscal year decreased compared fiscal year primarily due $ million decrease stock-based compensation, well the growth revenue and decrease sales and marketing expense. This improvement was partially offset increased salary and benefit costs from increased headcount, and increased investment research and development. Home and Entertainment ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ ( , ) ( )% % Home and Entertainment includes the Microsoft Xbox video game console system, games, CPxG (consumer software and hardware products), and platform products for the interactive television industry. The success video game consoles determined console innovation, the portfolio video game content for the console, online offerings, and the market share the console. Our Xbox business transitioning new console, the Xbox , which launched the second quarter fiscal year . believe that the functionality our new console, games portfolio, and online offerings are well-positioned relative forthcoming competitive consoles. also believe launching advance competitive consoles will provide strategic advantage for the long-term success Xbox . Revenue from the first generation Xbox products has declined and expected continue decline result the introduction Xbox . Home and Entertainment revenue increased fiscal year primarily due the launch the Xbox console partially offset decline first party Xbox game sales primarily resulting from the significant impact Halo fiscal year . sold approximately million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . The revenue growth was also attributable $ million % growth from our other product lines, primarily result increase games sales due significant new game releases, especially \x93Age Empires III\x94, and increase MSTV revenue due deployments fiscal year . Revenue increased fiscal year primarily due significant new product launches, which resulted $ million % increase Xbox revenue. Halo was introduced the second quarter fiscal year and generated over $ million revenue fiscal year . Revenue from consumer hardware and software, games, and platforms declined $ million % compared fiscal year due lower games software sales. Home and Entertainment operating loss increased fiscal year primarily result $ billion increase cost revenue resulting from the number Xbox consoles sold and higher Xbox unit costs, partially offset the revenue growth. Our fiscal year operating loss increased due the significant impact Halo fiscal year . Headcount-related costs increased % reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. The fiscal year operating loss decreased primarily due increase high margin Xbox software sales, lower Xbox console units costs, $ million lower- -cost- -market inventory adjustment recorded fiscal year , and $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense. The decrease was partially offset increase costs associated with Xbox console development and related launch efforts. PAGE Part Item Corporate-Level Activity ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Corporate-level expenses $ , $ , $ , ( )% ( )% Certain corporate-level expenses are not allocated our segments. Those expenses primarily include corporate operations related broad-based sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, information technology, corporate development and procurement activities, research and development and other costs, and legal settlements and contingencies. Corporate-level expenses decreased fiscal year , primarily reflecting $ million decrease costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies partially offset $ million increase headcount-related costs. incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year including settlement expense $ million related our settlement with RealNetworks, Inc. well other intellectual property and antitrust matters, and the \x80 million ($ million) fine imposed the European Commission July related its decision its competition law investigation Microsoft, compared $ billion legal charges incurred during the prior year primarily related settlements with Novell, Inc., Gateway, IBM, and other antitrust and competition law matters. Headcount-related costs increased % during the twelve months ended June , reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation. Corporate-level expenses decreased fiscal year , primarily result $ million reduction stock-based compensation expense and decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. fiscal year , recognized $ billion legal charges compared $ billion fiscal year which included $ billion charge for settlement with the Sun Microsystems, Inc., and the fine \x80 million ($ million) imposed the European Commission. Change Financial Reporting Structure July , , announced that effective the first quarter fiscal year , will report our businesses under five operating segments, reflecting completion the previously announced changes our organizational structure and how will manage our business beginning fiscal year . Each the five segments will organized under one the three operating divisions announced earlier fiscal year : \x95 Platforms and Services Division \x95 Microsoft Business Division \x95 Entertainment and Devices Division The five operating segments are described below. The first three these will comprise the Platforms and Services Division. Client will include the former Client segment. Products will include Windows Professional and Home, Media Center Edition, Tablet Edition, and other standard Windows operating systems. Server and Tools will include the former Server and Tools segment, excluding the Exchange Server business and certain client access licenses related products residing the Microsoft Business Division. Products will include the Windows Server operating system, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Consulting Services, product support services, Visual Studio, System Center products, the Forefront security family products, and Biz Talk Server, among others. Online Services Business will include the former MSN segment and Windows Live. Products will include MSN Search, MapPoint, MSN Internet Access, MSN Premium Web Services, MSN Mobile Services, and Windows Live. Microsoft Business Division will include the former Information Worker and Microsoft Business Solutions segments, well the Exchange Server business and certain client access licenses, formerly included the Server and Tools segment. Products will include Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint Portal Server CAL, Microsoft Live Meeting, One Note, Office Communication Server, Microsoft Dynamics , Microsoft PAGE Part Item Dynamics CRM, Microsoft Dynamics , Microsoft Dynamics NAV, Microsoft Dynamics , Microsoft Dynamics Retail Management System, Microsoft Partner Program, and Microsoft Office Small Business Accounting. Entertainment and Devices Division will include the former Home and Entertainment and Mobile and Embedded Devices segments. Products will include Xbox , Xbox, Xbox Live, CPxG (consumer software and hardware products), IPTV, Windows Mobile software platform, Windows Embedded device operating system, and Windows Automotive. Our historical results under this new segmentation for the four quarters fiscal years and were follows: Revenue For the quarter ended For the quarter ended ( millions) September , December , March , June , Fiscal Year September , December , March , June , Fiscal Year Segments Client $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , , , , , , , , Online Services Business , , Microsoft Business Division , , , , , , , , , , Entertainment and Devices , , , , , , Total revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating Income / (Loss) For the quarter ended For the quarter ended ( millions) September , December , March , June , Fiscal Year September , December , March , June , Fiscal Year Segments Client $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Online Services Business ( ) ( ) ( ) Microsoft Business Division , , , , , , , , , , Entertainment and Devices ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( , ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate-Level Activity ( , ) ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Our outlook for fiscal year based the five operating segments follows: Client expect revenue grow reflecting improvement the commercial and retail portion the business due our upcoming launch Windows Vista. expect revenue generated from OEMs grow slower than the hardware market due increased concentration among larger OEMs, consumer hardware shipments growing faster than business shipments, and relatively faster growth emerging markets. expect shipments grow % % for fiscal year . believe that unit growth rates will higher the consumer segment than the business segment and higher emerging markets than mature markets. Server and Tools expect continued momentum from recent product launches and the expansion our products security, management and designer tools will help drive our overall revenue growth fiscal year . estimate overall server hardware unit shipments will grow % % fiscal year . However, face competition from Linux-based, Unix, and other server operating systems well competition server applications. PAGE Part Item Online Services Business expect increased growth display advertising revenue the portals, channels, and communications services continue expand globally and the overall Internet advertising industry continues expand. Our search revenue expected grow fiscal year result continued ramp adCenter. expect revenue from narrowband Internet Access continue decline fiscal year . Microsoft Business Division expect Microsoft Business Division revenue grow fiscal year . feel that our customers\x92 continued preference purchase annuity contracts indicates enthusiasm for the Microsoft Office system. also expect continued demand for our Dynamics products, building the fiscal momentum. Entertainment and Devices Division expect revenue increase from fiscal year due the increased availability the Xbox console unit during the entire fiscal year, including the second holiday season after the launch fiscal year . fiscal year , expect introduce music and entertainment device, the first new family hardware and software products for the consumer market. The availability commercial IPTV product expected drive significant growth MSTV revenue across several geographies. Revenue from existing mobility and embedded devices expected increase due unit volume increases Windows Mobile software driven increased market demand for phone-enabled devices and Windows Embedded operating systems. Short product life cycles product lines such Windows Mobile software may impact our continuing revenue streams. Xbox console unit costs are expected decline. implement our long-term growth strategy, expect increase our level spending four key areas fiscal year : increased product costs associated with Xbox consoles; marketing and field sales spending including launch costs; quickening the pace development growth areas such business intelligence, security, management and unified communications (including acquisitions); and increased costs execute our online services strategy. While these investments will translate into increased operating expenses fiscal year , believe they will help lay the groundwork for future growth and profitability. Operating Expenses Cost Revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Cost revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( )% percent revenue % % % 2ppt ( )ppt Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. Cost revenue fiscal year increased mainly due $ billion increase Home and Entertainment result increase the number total Xbox consoles sold and higher Xbox unit costs. Cost revenue fiscal year decreased due $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense, $ million reduction costs associated with decrease the MSN Internet Access subscriber base, and $ million reduction other product costs mainly due Xbox consoles cost efficiency, partially offset increased costs product support and consulting services costs. Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Research and development $ , $ , $ , % ( )% percent revenue % % % \x96ppt ( )ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Research and development expenses also PAGE Part Item include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Research and development costs increased during fiscal year primarily due increased development costs associated with new and upcoming offerings such MSN adCenter, the Microsoft Office system, Windows Vista, Xbox , and corporate research activities. Headcount-related costs increased % during fiscal year reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. Our research and development expenses decreased fiscal year due $ billion decrease stock-based compensation expense. This expense decline was partially offset increased headcount and product development costs associated with the Xbox console and related games, SQL Server , Windows Vista, and product development Mobile and Embedded Devices. Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus Sales and marketing $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % \x96ppt \x96ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased during fiscal year primarily due increased headcount-related costs, investments partner marketing and product launch-related spending. Headcount-related costs increased % during fiscal year reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. For fiscal year , sales and marketing expense increased slightly due $ million higher headcount-related costs from increased headcount and general salary increases; higher sales and marketing costs driven product planning, reseller marketing, and advertising campaign costs mainly related launch the \x93Start Something\x94 campaign; launch \x93Halo \x94; and launch arrangements for Xbox . The increase was offset mainly $ million decrease stock-based compensation expense. General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change versus Percent Change versus General and administrative $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % ( )ppt ( )ppt General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense and other headcount-related costs associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources, other administrative headcount, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative costs decreased fiscal year primarily reflecting decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. incurred $ billion legal charges during fiscal year compared $ billion legal charges incurred during fiscal year . Headcount-related costs increased % during the twelve months ended June , reflecting both % increase headcount and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount, partially offset decrease stock-based compensation expense. General and administrative costs decreased fiscal year primarily reflecting decreased stock-based compensation expense and decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. fiscal year , recognized $ million stock-based compensation expense compared $ million fiscal year . fiscal year , recognized $ billion legal charges compared $ billion fiscal year . PAGE Part Item Investment Income and Other The components investment income and other were follows: ( millions) Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Income/(losses) from equity investees and other ( ) Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , For fiscal year , dividends and interest income increased due higher interest rates received our fixed-income investments, partially offset decline the average balance dividend and interest-bearing investments result the $ billion special dividend paid December , , and stock repurchases made throughout fiscal year . Dividends and interest income declined $ million fiscal year due the combination greater allocation funds lower yielding, more liquid asset classes preparation for the $ billion special dividend paid December , , and lower portfolio balance following payment the special dividend. For fiscal year , net recognized gains investments were comprised net gains sales equity investments, net losses sales fixed-income investments and other-than-temporary impairments both equity and fixed-income investments. Net recognized gains decreased fiscal year primarily due increased net losses sales fixed-income investments, higher other-than-temporary impairments and fewer net gains equity investments the current period compared fiscal year . For fiscal year , other-than-temporary impairments were $ million, compared $ million fiscal year . The increase other-than-temporary impairments fiscal year was driven planned sales certain investments unrealized loss position order raise funds for the $ billion tender offer announced July , . Net gains investments declined $ million fiscal year primarily due greater sales investments the previous fiscal year preparation for the special dividend paid December , . Net gains investments also include other-than-temporary impairments $ million fiscal year compared $ million fiscal year . Net realized gains sales were $ billion fiscal year moved more liquid investment asset classes. Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other than temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other than temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities enhance investment income. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. use derivative instruments manage exposures interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency markets and facilitate portfolio diversification. Net losses derivatives were follows: ( millions) Net gain/(losses) equity derivatives $ $ ( ) $ Net gains commodity derivatives \x96 Net losses interest rate derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Net losses foreign currency contracts ( ) ( ) ( ) Net losses derivatives $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) During fiscal year , experienced lower net losses derivatives compared fiscal year primarily due net gains non-designated equity derivatives the current fiscal year compared net losses the prior PAGE Part Item fiscal year and higher net gains commodity positions the current fiscal year driven increases the related commodity indices. These gains were partially offset higher net losses time value foreign exchange contracts used hedge anticipated foreign currency revenues and higher net losses interest rate derivative contracts. The net gains equity derivatives during fiscal year are primarily due changes the market value non-designated equity derivatives. Gains and losses arising from non-designated derivatives are economically offset unrealized losses and gains, respectively, the underlying equity securities which are recorded component other comprehensive income. Commodity derivatives are held for the purpose portfolio diversification. Net losses related foreign currency contracts relate primarily changes time value options used hedge anticipated foreign currency revenues. Additionally, net gains and losses foreign exchange contracts include the changes the fair value derivatives used economic hedges. These gains and losses are partially offset economically unrealized losses and gains, respectively, the underlying assets which are included other comprehensive income Net derivative losses fiscal year were primarily related losses equity derivatives, interest rate derivatives, and foreign currency contracts. During fiscal year , losses related equity derivatives used economically hedge against decline equity prices were $ million and losses related interest rate derivatives were $ million. These losses were offset the combination realized gains sales securities and unrealized gains related increases the market value the underlying assets included component other comprehensive income. Net losses related foreign currency contracts were $ million, related changes time value options used hedge anticipated foreign currency revenues and economically hedging foreign currency based investment exposures. Losses related hedging foreign currency-based investment exposures were offset unrealized gains the underlying assets which are included other comprehensive income. Net losses derivatives also included gains related commodity positions used provide portfolio diversification. Gains commodity positions were $ million during fiscal year . Derivative losses were $ million fiscal year primarily due net losses time value foreign exchange contracts used hedge anticipated foreign currency revenues. the second quarter fiscal year , entered into agreement with NBC Universal, Inc. (\x93NBC\x94) that restructured our joint venture relationships for MSNBC Cable . (\x93CJV\x94) and MSNBC Interactive News, . (\x93IJV\x94). result, divested % CJV for $ million and NBC acquired the right, exercisable the following two years, buy the remaining % interest. addition, modified our agreement with NBC grant IJV . content license and remove the exclusivity obligation both NBC and Microsoft for local and non- . news content. part the MSNBC restructuring agreements, paid $ million fee effectively terminate IJV\x92 prior content license agreement and also prepaid the remaining $ million license fee NBC. the fourth quarter fiscal year , NBC exercised its option buy our remaining % interest CJV. For fiscal year , recognized net gain $ million related the above transactions. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for fiscal year was % compared % for fiscal year . During fiscal year , recorded tax benefit $ million from the resolution state audits. The increased rate fiscal year resulted primarily from the European Commission fine \x80 million ($ million) which not tax deductible, and lower rate fiscal year result reversal $ million previously accrued taxes upon settling Internal Revenue Service examination for fiscal year \x96 and tax benefit $ million generated the decision repatriate foreign subsidiary earnings under temporary incentive provided the American Jobs Creation Act . Our effective tax rate for fiscal year was %. Financial Condition Cash and equivalents and short-term investments totaled $ billion and $ billion June , , and , respectively. This investment portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly .-dollar-denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. Equity and other investments were $ billion and $ billion June , , and , respectively. result the special dividend paid the second quarter fiscal year and shares repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $ billion June , . Our retained deficit not expected impact our future ability operate pay dividends given our continuing profitability and strong cash and financial position. PAGE Part Item Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, that are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. For certain other licensing arrangements revenue attributable undelivered elements, including free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the life cycle the related product. Other unearned revenue includes services, Platform, Microsoft Business Solutions, advertising, and subscriptions for which have been paid upfront and earn the revenue when provide the service software otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. Unearned revenue June , , increased $ billion from June , , reflecting additions unearned revenue from multi-year licensing that outpaced recognitions $ billion, $ million decrease revenue deferred for undelivered elements, and $ million increase primarily unearned revenue for services and subscription services. The following table outlines the expected recognition $ billion unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Recognition Unearned Revenue Three months ended: September , $ , December , , March , , June , , Thereafter , Unearned revenue $ , Cash Flows Cash flow from operations for fiscal year decreased % $ billion primarily due increased payments fund $ million increase inventory and product costs related Xbox and increased payments employees resulting from % growth headcount. These factors were partially offset increased cash receipts from customers driven our % revenue growth and $ billion increase unearned revenue. Cash used financing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from the previous year driven $ billion reduction cash dividend payments. This impact was partially offset $ billion increase common stock repurchases. Net cash from investing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from fiscal year driven primarily $ billion decrease cash from combined purchase, sales, and maturities investments and $ million increase additions property and equipment. These factors were partially offset $ billion cash proceeds from our securities lending program. Cash flow from operations for fiscal year increased % $ billion primarily due increase cash receipts from customers driven our % revenue growth combined with % increase unearned revenue. Cash payments fiscal year resulting from significant legal settlements were approximately $ billion lower than the previous year, adding the overall increase operating cash flow. Partially offsetting these factors were increased payments employees resulting from % increase full-time employees. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , driven $ billion cash dividends paid fiscal year compared $ billion paid fiscal year . The increase was also partially driven $ billion cash used for common stock repurchases, increase $ billion cash used for share repurchases compared the previous year, reflecting million shares repurchased fiscal year , increase million shares compared the previous year. Net cash from investing was $ billion fiscal year , increase $ billion from fiscal year , primarily due $ billion increase investment maturities that occurred fund cash dividends paid fiscal year , partially offset $ billion decrease cash from combined investment purchase and sale activity. PAGE Part Item Cash flow from operations for fiscal year decreased $ billion $ billion. The decrease primarily reflects the combined cash outflows $ billion related the Sun Microsystems settlement and the European Commission fine partially offset increased cash receipts from customers driven the rise revenue billings. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from the previous year. The decrease reflects that did not repurchase common stock the fourth quarter fiscal year combined with $ million increase primarily from stock issuances related employee stock options exercises, partially offset $ million increase cash dividends paid. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal year . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from fiscal year . have material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment under which incurred rental expense totaling $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal year , and , respectively. have issued residual value guarantees connection with various operating leases. These guarantees provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. fiscal year , our Board Directors declared $ per share cash dividends, with $ billion paid June , . quarterly dividend $ per share ( $ million) was declared our Board Directors June , paid shareholders record August , , September , . July , , announced the completion the repurchase program initially approved our Board Directors July , buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. The repurchases were made using our cash resources. During fiscal year , repurchased million shares, $ billion, our common stock under this plan. July , , also announced that our Board Directors authorized new share repurchase programs, comprised $ billion tender offer which was completed August , , and additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program with expiration June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares our common stock, approximately % the common shares outstanding, for approximately $ billion price per share $ . August , , announced that the authorization for the ongoing share repurchase program, previously announced July , , had been increased approximately $ billion. result, the company authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . believe existing cash and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements, quarterly dividends and planned share repurchases. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and short-term investments, and equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. regularly assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements provide indemnifications varying scope and amount certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, interpreted FASB Interpretation . (\x93FIN\x94) , Guarantor\x92 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees Indebtedness Others . consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the PAGE Part Item ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any material liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) ( ) Payments due period Fiscal Years - - and thereafter Total Long-term debt $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 Construction commitments ( )( ) \x96 \x96 \x96 Lease obligations: Capital leases \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Operating leases ( ) Purchase commitments ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Other long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 Total contractual obligations $ , $ $ $ $ , ( ) have excluded the $ million long-term contingent liability related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits referred Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements the timing and amount resolved cash versus vouchers subject uncertainty. ( ) have certain commitments for the construction buildings. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Our future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases comprise the majority the operating lease obligations presented above. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) The amount presented above purchase and construction commitments includes all known open purchase orders and all known contracts that are take- -pay contracts. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and our cash flows from operations. ( ) have excluded other obligations $ billion from other long-term liabilities presented above the amount that will settled cash not known. have also excluded unearned revenue $ billion. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS November , the FASB issued Staff Position (\x93FSP\x94) FAS123( )- , Transition Election Accounting for the Tax Effects Share-Based Payment Awards. This FSP requires entity follow either the transition guidance for the additional-paid- -capital pool prescribed SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment , the alternative transition method described the FSP. entity that adopts SFAS . ( ) using the modified prospective application may make one-time election adopt the transition method described this FSP. entity may take one year from the later its initial adoption SFAS . ( ) the effective date this FSP evaluate its available transition alternatives and make its one-time election. elected adopt the transition method described the FSP July , . This method change did not have impact our financial statements. June , the FASB issued FIN . , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . , which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty income taxes recognized enterprise\x92 financial statements accordance with FASB Statement . , Accounting for Income Taxes. The interpretation prescribes recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement tax position taken expected taken tax return. FIN . requires recognition tax benefits that satisfy greater than % probability threshold. FIN . also provides guidance derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting interim periods, disclosure, and transition. FIN . effective for beginning July , . are assessing the potential impact that the adoption FIN . will have our financial statements. PAGE Part Item June , the FASB ratified the Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) consensus EITF Issue . - , \x93 Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits Pursuant FASB Statement . \x94. EITF Issue . - requires companies accrue the costs compensated absences under sabbatical similar benefit arrangement over the requisite service period. EITF Issue . - effective for beginning July , . The cumulative effect the application this consensus prior period results should recognized through cumulative-effect adjustment retained earnings the beginning the year adoption. Elective retrospective application also permitted. are currently evaluating the financial impact this guidance and the method adoption that will used. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, accounting for income taxes, and accounting for stock-based compensation. account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants Statement Position (\x93SOP\x94) - , Software Revenue Recognition . The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94) fair value exists for those elements. Customers receive certain elements our products over period time. These elements include free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, the fair value which recognized over the product\x92 estimated life cycle. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities , and SEC SAB , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities , provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry, and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (July for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This requires significant judgments including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. allocate goodwill reporting units based the reporting unit expected benefit from the combination. evaluate our reporting units annual basis and necessary, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. PAGE Part Item account for research and development costs accordance with several accounting pronouncements, including SFAS . , Accounting for Research and Development Costs , and SFAS . , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . SFAS . specifies that costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product should charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established have not been material, and accordingly, have expensed all research and development costs when incurred. The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, requires that estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial position our results operations. SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows. Accruals for tax contingencies are provided for accordance with the requirements SFAS . . account for stock-based compensation accordance with SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment . Under the fair value recognition provisions this statement, share-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the value the award and recognized expense over the vesting period. Determining the fair value share-based awards the grant date requires judgment, including estimating expected dividends. addition, judgment also required estimating the amount share-based awards that are expected forfeited. actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results operations could materially impacted. PAGE Part Item Statement Management\x92 Responsibility for Financial Statements Management responsible for the preparation the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based management\x92 estimates and judgments, have been prepared conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. The Company maintains accounting and internal control systems provide reasonable assurance reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented written policies, organizational structure providing division responsibilities, careful selection and training qualified personnel and program internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent auditors, audit and render opinion the consolidated financial statements and management\x92 report its assessment and the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely independent directors the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors and our independent auditors ensure that each meeting its responsibilities and discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access the Audit Committee. Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer PAGE Part Item ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK are exposed foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity, and commodity price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results operations and financial position. hedge portion anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed-income securities are subject primarily interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and structured minimize credit risk. Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject price risk, and are generally not hedged. However, use options hedge our price risk certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. Commodity derivatives held for the purpose portfolio diversification are subject commodity price risk. use value- -risk (\x93VaR\x94) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VaR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VaR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. The model used for currencies, equities, and commodities geometric Brownian motion, which allows incorporation optionality with regard these risk exposures. For interest rate risk, exposures such key rate durations and spread durations are used calculations that reflect the principle that fixed-income security prices revert maturity value over time. VaR calculated computing the exposures each holding\x92 market value range over , equity, fixed-income, foreign exchange, and commodity risk factors. The exposures are then used compute the parameters distribution potential changes the total market value all holdings, taking into account the weighted historical volatilities the different rates and prices and the weighted historical correlations among the different rates and prices. The VaR then calculated the total loss that will not exceeded the percentile confidence level , alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the VaR out , cases. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. Certain securities our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. hedge the value portion these securities through the use derivative contracts such put-call collars. these arrangements, hedge security\x92 equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most all the benefits the security\x92 appreciation above the sold call strike, exchange for the premium received for the sold call. also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. have incurred material impairment charges related these securities previous periods. the beginning the second fiscal quarter fiscal year , changed the methodology use calculate VaR. previously used Monte Carlo simulation-based methodology calculate VaR. the second quarter fiscal year , adopted factor-based parametric methodology. The factor-based parametric methodology can performed more frequently (resulting more timely data), divides the aggregated VaR into its component risk factor groups, and incrementally more accurate than the previously used simulation-based methodology evaluating diversification effects commodity risk factors and interactions between equity and currency factors. While believe the efficiencies gained changing the parametric methodology are significant, not believe this methodology produces results that are significantly different from the simulation-based methodology. The VaR amounts disclosed below are used risk management tool and reflect estimate potential reductions fair value our portfolio. Losses fair value over the specified holding period can exceed the reported VaR significant amounts and can also accumulate over longer time horizon than the specified holding period used the VaR analysis. VaR amounts are not necessarily reflective potential accounting losses, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with . GAAP. VaR numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency rate, equity price, and commodity price risks. These VaR numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. use historical data estimate VaR. Given the reliance historical data, VaR most effective estimating risk exposures markets which there are fundamental changes shifts market conditions. inherent limitation VaR that the distribution past changes market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions future market risk. PAGE Part Item The following table sets forth the one-day VaR for substantially all our positions June , and , and for the fiscal year ended June , : ( millions) Year ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Interest rates $ $ $ $ $ Currency rates Equity prices Commodity prices Total one-day VaR for the combined risk categories was $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VaR % less June , and % less June, than the sum the separate risk categories the above table due the diversification benefit the combination risks. PAGE Part Item ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Investment income and other , , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments (including securities pledged collateral $ , and $-) , , Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ and $ , , Inventories, net , Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net Deferred income taxes , , Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Securities lending payable , \x97 Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Other long-term liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings (deficit), including accumulated other comprehensive income $ , and $ , ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , Stock-based compensation , , , Net recognized gains investments ( ) ( ) ( , ) Stock option income tax benefits \x96 , Excess tax benefits from stock-based payment arrangements ( ) \x96 \x96 Deferred income taxes ( ) ( , ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other current assets ( , ) ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) Other current liabilities ( ) , Other long-term liabilities , , Net cash from operations , , , Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based payment arrangements \x96 \x96 Other \x96 ( ) \x96 Net cash used financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired ( ) ( ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Net proceeds from securities lending , \x96 \x96 Net cash from (used ) investing , , ( , ) Net change cash and equivalents , ( , ) , Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock option income tax benefits/(deficiencies) ( ) ( ) Other, net ( ) Balance, end period , , , Retained earnings (deficit) Balance, beginning period ( , ) , , Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) Net unrealized investments gains/(losses) ( ) ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Comprehensive income , , , Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period ( , ) ( , ) , Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. PRINCIPLES CONSOLIDATION The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which exercise significant influence but not control and are not the primary beneficiary are accounted for using the equity method. Investments which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee and which not have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the cost method. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies, product life cycles, and stock-based compensation forfeiture rates; assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; estimating the fair value and goodwill impairment for our reporting units; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. revised our expense classification policies during fiscal year which resulted reclassifications certain operating expenses. have reclassified the prior period amounts conform the current year presentation. These reclassifications had impact total operating expenses, operating income and our net income. FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited Other Comprehensive Income (\x93OCI\x94). REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. enter into certain arrangements where are obligated deliver multiple products and services (multiple elements). these arrangements, generally allocate the total revenue among the elements based the sales price each element when sold separately (vendor-specific objective evidence). Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEM\x94), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped, with portion the revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements including, some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the vendor-specific objective evidence fair value for those elements using the residual method. Under the residual method, the total fair value the undelivered elements, indicated vendor-specific objective evidence, recorded unearned, and the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount recorded unearned for the undelivered elements recognized revenue related delivered elements. Unearned revenue due undelivered elements recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Revenue from multi-year licensing arrangements are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Certain multi-year licensing PAGE Part Item arrangements include rights receive future versions software product when-and- -available basis under Open and Select volume licensing programs (Software Assurance). addition, other multi-year licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis under Open, Select, and Enterprise Agreement volume licensing programs. Premier support services agreements, MSN Internet Access subscriptions, Xbox Live, and Microsoft Developer Network subscriptions are also accounted for subscriptions. Revenue related our Xbox game console recognized upon shipment the product retailers. Revenue related games published recognized when those games have been delivered retailers. Revenue related games published third parties for use the Xbox platform recognized when manufactured for the game publishers. Online advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Revenue for fixed price services arrangements recognized based percentage completion. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for developer tools software, games, computer hardware, and Xbox, are accrued when the related revenue recognized. Provisions are recorded for estimated returns, concessions, and bad debts. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established have not been material, and accordingly, have expensed all research and development costs when incurred. SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other marketing-related programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion fiscal year , $ million fiscal year , and $ million fiscal year . INCOME TAXES Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. general, investments with original maturities greater than three months and remaining maturities less than one year are classified short term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments may include both debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities enhance investment income. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash collateral recorded asset with corresponding liability. PAGE Part Item Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology quarterly basis that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. use derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, equity price, interest rate and credit risks, enhance returns, and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instrument designated fair-value hedge, the gain loss recognized earnings the period change together with the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the risk being hedged. For derivative instrument designated cash-flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component OCI and subsequently recognized earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss recognized earnings. For options designated either fair-value cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges for accounting purposes are recognized earnings. Foreign Currency Risk. Certain assets, liabilities, and forecasted transactions are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Options are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash-flow hedging instruments under Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Certain non- . dollars denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair-value hedging instruments under SFAS . . Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies and manage other foreign currency exposures. Equities Price Risk. Equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, use and designate options hedge fair values and cash flows certain equity securities. determine the security, forecasted sale thereof, selected for hedging evaluating market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Certain options, futures and swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , are also used manage equity exposures. Interest Rate Risk. Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. use exchange-traded option and future contracts and over-the-counter swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , hedge interest rate risk. Other Derivatives. Swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , are used manage exposures credit risks, enhance returns, and facilitate portfolio diversification. addition, may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets are also considered derivatives cases where physical delivery the assets are not taken the earliest available delivery date. All derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments are recorded fair value, with changes value recognized earnings during the period change. PAGE Part Item ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance beginning period Charged costs and expenses Write-offs and other Balance end period $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) $ INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally three years less. GOODWILL Goodwill tested for impairment annual basis July , and between annual tests indicators potential impairment exist, using fair-value-based approach. impairment goodwill has been identified during any the periods presented. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one ten years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically and take into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. All our intangible assets are subject amortization. impairments intangible assets have been identified during any the periods presented. NOTE UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue comprised the following items: Volume licensing programs \x96 Represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Undelivered elements \x96 Represents free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount recorded unearned based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home, approximately % % the sales price for Windows Professional, and approximately % % the sales price for desktop applications, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and one-half years for Windows operating systems and two years for desktop applications. PAGE Part Item Other \x96 Represents payments for post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future, online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed, Microsoft Business Solutions maintenance and enhancement billings, Xbox Live and other billings that are accounted for subscriptions, and other agreements where Microsoft committed the delivery future enhancements, products, services, including the platform. The components unearned revenue were follows: ( millions) June Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other , , Unearned revenue $ , $ , Unearned revenue segment was follows: ( millions) June Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Information Worker , , Other segments Unearned revenue $ , $ , NOTE INVESTMENTS The components investments were follows: ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds ( ) \x96 Commercial paper , \x96 \x96 , , \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities , \x96 ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , \x96 , Municipal securities , ( ) , , \x96 Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock \x96 \x96 \x96 Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds , \x96 , \x96 Commercial paper , \x96 , , \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , \x96 Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock , \x96 , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than and greater than months and their related fair values were follows: Less than months months greater Total ( millions) Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses June , Mutual funds $ $ ( ) $ $ \x96 $ $ ( ) . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Foreign government bonds , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Mortgage backed securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Municipal securities , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Common stock and equivalents ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Less than months months greater Total ( millions) Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses June , . . Government and Agency securities $ , $ ( ) $ \x96 $ \x96 , $ ( ) Foreign government bonds ( ) \x96 \x96 ( ) Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) \x96 \x96 , ( ) Municipal securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Common stock and equivalents , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) PAGE Part Item June , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed-income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed-income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities and $ million related international equity securities. Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. June , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed-income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities and $ million related international equity securities. Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. Management does not believe any unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairment based our evaluation available evidence June , . Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , the recorded basis these investments was $ million, and their estimated fair value was $ million. June , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. The maturities debt securities, including fixed maturity securities, June , were follows: ( millions) Cost basis Estimated fair value Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through ten years , , Due after ten years , , Total $ , $ , NOTE INVESTMENT INCOME AND OTHER The components investment income and other were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Income/(losses) from equity investees and other ( ) Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments include other-than-temporary impairments $ million fiscal year , $ million fiscal year , and $ million fiscal year . The increase other-than-temporary impairments fiscal year was driven planned sales certain investments unrealized loss position order raise funds for the $ billion tender offer announced July , . Realized gains and (losses) from sales available-for-sale securities (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) were $ billion and $( ) million fiscal year , $ billion and $( ) million fiscal year , and $ billion and $( ) million fiscal year . NOTE DERIVATIVES For derivative instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , did not have significant impact earnings PAGE Part Item for fiscal years , , . During fiscal year , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and derivative gains losses were reclassified investment income and other. estimate that $ million net derivative gains included OCI will reclassified into earnings within the next months. significant amounts gains losses were reclassified from OCI into earnings result forecasted transactions that failed occur for fiscal years , , and . NOTE INVENTORIES ( millions) June Finished goods $ , $ Raw materials and work process Inventories $ , $ NOTE PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT ( millions) June Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment , Property and equipment, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Property and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed principally the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets. The useful lives for buildings range from five years, leasehold improvements range from two ten years \x96 representing the applicable lease terms plus reasonably assured extensions, computer equipment and software range from two three years, and furniture and equipment range from one five years. Land not depreciated. During fiscal years , , and , depreciation expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. The majority depreciation expense all years related computer equipment. PAGE Part Item NOTE GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill for fiscal years and segment were follows: ( millions) Balance June , Acquisitions / purchase accounting adjustments Divestitures Balance June , Acquisitions Other Balance June , Client $ $ $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 $ Server and Tools \x96 ( ) Information Worker \x96 \x96 Microsoft Business Solutions , \x96 , \x96 \x96 , MSN \x96 Mobile and Embedded Devices \x96 \x96 \x96 ( ) Home and Entertainment \x96 ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , test goodwill for impairment annually during the first quarter each fiscal year the reporting unit level using fair value approach, accordance with the provisions SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . Our annual testing resulted impairments goodwill fiscal years and . event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value, goodwill will evaluated for impairment between annual tests. During fiscal year , had material acquisitions. During the fiscal year , acquired the following entities for total consideration $ million, which was primarily paid cash: \x95 Frontbridge Technologies, Inc., California-based provider managed services that addresses corporate -mail compliance, security, and availability requirements; \x95 Teleo, Inc., California-based voice over Internet protocol software and services provider; \x95 MediaStreams com , Zurich, Switzerland-based developer -based voice over Internet protocol communication systems and peripheral equipment; \x95 Lionhead Studios Ltd., Guildford, England-based software studio specializing game development; \x95 Vexcel Corporation, Colorado-based imagery technology and systems provider; \x95 Massive Corporation, New York-based developer video game advertising; \x95 ProClarity Corporation, Idaho-based developer advanced analysis and visualization technologies for business platforms; and \x95 various other entities specializing areas such application security, digital access management, and networking solutions. result these acquisitions, recorded $ million goodwill. None that amount expected deductible for tax purposes. Goodwill was assigned our operating segments follows: $ million Server & Tools, $ million MSN, $ million Client, $ million Information Worker, and $ million Home and Entertainment. also recorded $ million technology-based intangible assets with weighted-average amortization period years, and $ million other intangible assets with weighted-average amortization period years. All the entities have been consolidated into our financial statements since their respective acquisition dates. None the acquisitions, individually the aggregate, are material our consolidated results operations. Accordingly, pro forma information has not been included. PAGE Part Item NOTE INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components finite-lived intangible assets were follows: ( millions) June Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Contract-based $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Technology-based ( ) ( ) Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ During fiscal year and , recorded additions intangible assets $ million and $ million, respectively. estimate that have significant residual value related our intangible assets. The components finite-lived intangible assets acquired during fiscal years and were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount Weighted average life Amount Weighted average life Contract-based $ years $ years Technology-based years years Marketing-related years \x96 \x96 Customer-related years years Total $ $ Acquired intangibles are generally amortized straight-line basis over weighted average periods. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal year , $ million for fiscal year , and $ million for fiscal year . The estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets June , follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount $ Total $ PAGE Part Item NOTE INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Current taxes: . Federal $ , $ , $ , . State and Local International , Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes (benefits) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , . and international components income before income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes were follows: Year Ended June Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Foreign earnings taxed lower rates ( )% ( )% ( )% Examination settlements ( )% ( )% \x96 Other reconciling items % ( )% ( )% Effective rate % % % The other reconciling items includes the impact the $ million non-deductible European Commission fine. The other reconciling items include $ million repatriation tax benefit under the American Jobs Creation Act . The other reconciling items include the $ million benefit from the resolution issue remanded the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals and the impact the $ million non-deductible European Commission fine. PAGE Part Item The components the deferred tax assets and liabilities were follows: ( millions) June Deferred income tax assets: Stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , Other expense items , , Unearned revenue , Impaired investments Other revenue items Other \x96 Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: International earnings $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Unrealized gain investments ( ) $ ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Reported : Current deferred tax assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred tax assets , , Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. have not provided deferred . income taxes foreign withholding taxes temporary differences approximately $ million resulting from earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the United States. The amount unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences approximately $ million. The American Jobs Creation Act (the \x93Act\x94) was enacted October . The Act creates temporary incentive for . corporations repatriate foreign subsidiary earnings providing elective % dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. Under these provisions, repatriated approximately $ million dividends subject the elective % dividends received deduction and recorded corresponding tax provision benefit $ million from the reversal previously provided . deferred tax liabilities these unremitted foreign subsidiary earnings . The dividend was paid June . Income taxes paid were $ billion fiscal year , $ billion fiscal year , and $ billion fiscal year . Tax Contingencies . are subject income taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related assets and liabilities. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. are regularly under audit tax authorities. Accruals for tax contingencies are provided for accordance with the requirements SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies . Although believe have appropriate support for the positions taken our tax returns, have recorded liability for our best estimate the probable loss certain these positions, the non-current portion which included other long-term liabilities. believe that our accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open years, based our assessment many factors including past experience and interpretations tax law applied the facts each matter, which matters result primarily from inter-company transfer pricing, restructuring foreign PAGE Part Item operations, tax benefits from the Foreign Sales Corporation and Extra Territorial Income tax rules, the amount research and experimentation tax credits claimed, state income taxes, and certain other matters. Although believe our recorded assets and liabilities are reasonable, tax regulations are subject interpretation and tax litigation inherently uncertain; therefore our assessments can involve both series complex judgments about future events and rely heavily estimates and assumptions. Although believe that the estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, the final determination tax audit settlements and any related litigation could materially different than that which reflected historical income tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. were settle audit matter under litigation, could have material effect our income tax provision, net income, cash flows the period periods for which that determination made. Due the complexity involved are not able estimate the range reasonably possible losses excess amounts recorded. The Internal Revenue Service (\x93IRS\x94) has completed and closed its audits our consolidated federal income tax returns through . The IRS currently conducting audit our consolidated federal income tax return for tax years through . NOTE OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES ( millions) June Tax contingencies $ , $ , Legal contingencies , Employee stock option transfer program \x96 Other Other long-term liabilities $ , $ , NOTE STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , July , , announced the completion the $ billion Microsoft common stock repurchase program approved our Board Directors July , . The repurchases were made using our cash resources. Our Board Directors had previously approved program repurchase shares our common stock. Under these repurchase plans, have made the following share repurchases: (share amounts millions, dollars billions) Fiscal year ( ) ( ) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount First quarter $ $ $ Second quarter Third quarter Fourth quarter \x96 \x96 Total $ $ $ ( ) All amounts repurchased fiscal year and fiscal year were repurchased under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors July , . PAGE Part Item fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Date Record Total Amount ( millions) Payment Date September , $ November , $ December , December , $ February , $ March , March , $ May , $ June , June , $ August , $ ( ) September , ( ) The dividend declared June , will paid after the filing date this report Form - and was included other current liabilities June , . fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Date Record Total Amount ( millions) Payment Date July , $ August , $ September , July , $ November , $ , December , September , $ November , $ December , December , $ February , $ March , March , $ May , $ June , June , $ August , $ ( ) September , ( ) The dividend declared June , was included other current liabilities June , . NOTE OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The activity other comprehensive income and related tax effects were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments: Unrealized gains/(losses), net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Reclassification adjustment for losses included net income, net tax effect $ , $ , and $ Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/(losses): Unrealized holding losses, net tax effect $( ) , $( ) , and $( ) ( ) ( ) ( , ) Reclassification adjustment for losses included net income, net tax effect $ , $ , and $ Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) ( ) ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Other comprehensive income /(loss) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) PAGE Part Item The components accumulated other comprehensive income were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Net gains derivative instruments $ $ $ Net unrealized investment gains , , Translation adjustments and other Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , NOTE EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS Effective July , , adopted SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment, using the modified prospective application transition method. Because the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Stock-Based Compensation, and SFAS . ( ) were materially consistent under our equity plans, the adoption SFAS . ( ) did not have significant impact our financial position our results operations. Prior our adoption SFAS . ( ), benefits tax deductions excess recognized compensation costs were reported operating cash flows. SFAS . ( ) requires excess tax benefits reported financing cash inflow rather than reduction taxes paid. The stock-based compensation and related income tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Total stock-based compensation $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefits related stock-based compensation $ $ $ , Employee Stock Purchase Plan. have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan recognized accordance with SFAS . ( ). The administrative committee under the plan approved change the common stock purchase discount and approved the elimination the related look back period and change quarterly purchase periods that became effective July , . result, beginning fiscal year , shares our common stock may presently purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the last day each three-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During fiscal year employees purchased million shares average price $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. During fiscal year employees purchased million shares average prices $ per share. Under the plan effect previous fiscal year , shares our common stock could purchased six month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six-month period. Employees could purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During fiscal year employees purchased million shares average prices $ per share. Savings Plan. have savings plan the United States that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, and number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. PAGE Part Item Stock Plans. have stock plans for directors and for officers, employees, consultants, and advisors. June , , aggregate million shares were authorized for future grant under our stock plans, which cover stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. Awards that expire are canceled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. The options transferred JPMorgan Chase Bank (\x93JPMorgan\x94) (see below) fiscal year have been removed from our plans; any options transferred JPMorgan that expire without being exercised will not become available for grant under any our plans. November , , our shareholders approved amendments the stock plans that allowed our Board Directors adjust eligible options, unvested stock awards, and shared performance stock awards maintain their pre-dividend value after the $ special dividend. Additional awards were granted for options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards the ratio post- and pre-special dividend stock price the -dividend date. Strike prices for options were decreased the same ratio. Stock-based compensation was not affected this adjustment. result this approval and payment the $ special dividend December , , adjustment the prices and number shares existing awards was made resulting total million options and million stock awards being issued adjust the outstanding awards. addition, the target shared performance stock awards were increased million shares. issue new shares satisfy stock option exercises. July , , announced the completion the repurchase program initially approved our Board Directors July , buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. Stock Awards and Shared Performance Stock Awards. Stock awards are grants that entitle the holder shares common stock the award vests. Our stock awards generally vest over five-year period. Shared Performance Stock Awards (\x93SPSAs\x94) are form stock award which the number shares ultimately received depends our business performance against specified performance targets. The performance period for SPSAs issued fiscal years , , and was July , through June , (January , through June , for certain executive officers). Following the end the performance period, the Board Directors determined that the number shares stock awards issued was million, based the actual performance against metrics established for the performance period. One-third the awards will vest the first quarter fiscal year . additional one-third the awards will vest over each the following two years. Because the SPSAs covered three-year period, SPSAs issued fiscal year and were given only newly hired and promoted employees eligible receive SPSAs. The Company will grant SPSAs for fiscal year with performance period July , through June , . the end the performance period, the number shares stock subject the award will determined multiplying the target award percentage ranging from % %. The percentage will determined based performance against metrics for the performance period, determined the Compensation Committee the Board Directors its sole discretion. additional % the total stock and stock awards will available additional awards participants based individual performance. One-quarter the shares stock subject each award will vest following the end the performance period, and additional one-quarter the shares will vest over each the following three years. measure the fair value SAs and SPSAs based upon the market price the underlying common stock the date grant, reduced the present value estimated future dividends. SAs and SPSAs are amortized over their applicable vesting period (generally five years) using the straight-line method. The fair value each award grant estimated the date grant using the following assumptions: ( millions) Dividend per share $ - $ $ $ Interest rates range % - % % - % % - % The dividend per share amounts for fiscal year and fiscal year are quarterly dividend amounts. The dividend amount $ was the total dividend per share for fiscal year . PAGE Part Item During fiscal year , the following activity occurred under our existing plans: Shares ( millions) Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Stock awards: Nonvested balance July , $ Granted Vested ( ) Forfeited ( ) Nonvested balance June , $ Shared performance stock awards: Nonvested balance July , $ Granted Vested \x96 \x96 Forfeited ( ) Nonvested balance June , $ June , , there were $ billion and $ million total unrecognized compensation costs related SAs and SPSAs, respectively. These costs are expected recognized over weighted average period years and years, respectively. During the months ended June , and June , , the following activity occurred under our plans: ( millions, except fair values) Fiscal Year Fiscal Year Stock awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Shared performance stock awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Stock Options. fiscal year , began granting employees stock awards rather than stock options part our equity compensation plans. Since then, stock options issued employees have been issued primarily conjunction with business acquisitions. Nonqualified stock options were granted our directors under our non-employee director stock plan. Nonqualified and incentive stock options were granted our officers and employees under our employee stock plans. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted after vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Approximately million stock options were granted conjunction with business acquisitions during fiscal year . stock options were granted during the year ended June , . fiscal year , approximately two million stock options were granted, nearly all which were granted conjunction with business acquisitions. During fiscal year , completed employee stock option transfer program whereby employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested options with strike price $ higher JPMorgan. The options transferred JPMorgan were amended and restated upon transfer contain terms and conditions typical equity option transactions entered into between sophisticated financial counterparties arm\x92 length using standard terms and definitions for equity derivatives. result this program, recorded additional stock-based compensation expense $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) which was recorded the second quarter fiscal year . June , , million options transferred JPMorgan remained outstanding but are excluded from the table below. These options have strike prices ranging from $ $ per share and have expiration dates extending through December . PAGE Part Item Employee stock options outstanding were follows: Shares ( millions) Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term (years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( millions) Balance, July , $ Granted Exercised ( ) Canceled ( ) Forfeited ( ) Balance, June , $ $ Exercisable, June , $ $ Included the options outstanding balance are approximately five million options that were granted conjunction with business acquisitions. While these options are included the options outstanding balance, they are excluded from the weighted average exercise prices presented. These options have exercise price range $ $ and weighted average exercise price $ . June , , there were $ million total unrecognized compensation costs related stock options. These costs are expected recognized over weighted average period approximately one year. During fiscal years , , and the following activity occurred under our plans: ( millions) Total intrinsic value stock options exercised $ $ $ , Total fair value stock awards vested Cash received and income tax benefit from stock option exercises for fiscal year were $ billion and $ million, respectively. NOTE EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components basic and diluted earnings per share are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect employee stock options and awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings per share: Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ PAGE Part Item For the years ended June , , , and , million, million, and billion shares, respectively, were attributable outstanding stock options and were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices the stock options were greater than equal the average price the common shares, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. For the year ended June , , million shared performance stock awards, out the million targeted amount outstanding, have been excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the number shares ultimately issued contingent our performance against metrics established for the performance period, discussed Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plans. NOTE COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million, fiscal years , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount $ and thereafter $ have committed $ million for constructing new buildings. connection with various operating leases, issued residual value guarantees, which provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. addition, also provide indemnification against credit risk several geographical locations our volume license resellers case the resellers fail collect from the end user. Due the nature the indemnification provided our resellers, cannot estimate the fair value, nor determine the total nominal amount the indemnification. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . , Guarantor\x92 Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees Indebtedness Others . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Our product warranty accrual reflects management\x92 best estimate our probable liability under its product warranties (primarily relating the Xbox console). determine the warranty accrual based known product failures ( any), historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Our warranty accrual totals $ million June , . There has been significant activity impacting the results operations for any period presented. NOTE CONTINGENCIES Government competition law matters. March , , the European Commission issued decision its competition law investigation . The Commission concluded that infringed European competition law refusing provide our competitors with licenses certain protocol technology the Windows server operating systems and including streaming media playback functionality Windows desktop operating systems. The Commission ordered make the relevant licenses our technology available our competitors and develop PAGE Part Item and make available version the Windows desktop operating system that does not include specified software relating media playback. The decision also imposed fine \x80 million, which resulted charge the third quarter fiscal year \x80 million ($ million). filed appeal the decision the Court First Instance June , . December , , the Court ordered that must comply with the decision pending review appeal and are taking steps ensure are compliance. The hearing the appeal occurred April . continue contest the conclusion that European competition law was infringed and will defend our position vigorously. December , the Commission issued Statement Objections that preliminarily concluded were not full compliance with the decree. March , the Commission conducted oral hearing the Statement Objections and our response the Statement. July , , the European Commission announced its determination that had not complied with the technical documentation requirements the Decision, and levied fine \x80 million ($ million). will appeal this fine the Court First Instance. December , , the Korean Fair Trade Commission (\x93KFTC\x94) announced ruling its investigation , holding that abused market dominant position and engaged unfair trade practices under the Korean Fair Trade Law incorporating instant messaging and media player functionality into the Windows operating system, and streaming media technologies into the Windows server operating system. The KFTC also announced the imposition remedies, including fine approximately $ million. The KFTC issued its formal written ruling and corrective order February , . The KFTC held that our integration Windows Media Player and Windows Messenger Windows operating systems and integration Windows Media Services Windows server operating systems constituted abuse monopoly power and unlawful tying violation the Korean Fair Trade Act. Under the order, which became effective August , , can longer distribute Windows Korea currently designed. are required develop and distribute Korea versions Windows and its successors that not include Windows Media Player Windows Messenger functionality. addition, also may distribute second modified version Windows that contains the removed functionality, provided the second version includes promotional links the user interface that will enable consumers link and download select group competing media players and instant messengers. have appealed the KFTC\x92 decision the Seoul High Court. May , , the KFTC denied our motion for reconsideration its ruling. part that decision, the KFTC dropped the element its ruling that prohibited from including Windows Media Player Windows Messenger, any feature with similar functionality, any product other than the Windows client operating system for which have % greater market share. August , , announced the release manufacture the mandated versions Windows Home Edition and Windows Professional Edition. other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state Attorneys General have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. Antitrust, and unfair competition, and overcharge class actions. large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits have been filed against various state and federal courts behalf variously defined classes direct and indirect purchasers our operating system and certain software applications products. The federal cases have been consolidated the . District Court for Maryland. These cases allege that competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications, and they seek recover alleged overcharges for these products. date, courts have dismissed all claims for damages cases brought against indirect purchasers under federal law and states. Ten those state court decisions have been affirmed appeal. There was appeal five states. addition, courts two states refused certify classes, essentially bringing the litigation close. Claims under federal law brought behalf foreign purchasers have been dismissed the . District Court Maryland have all claims brought behalf consumers seeking injunctive relief under federal law. The ruling injunctive relief and the ruling dismissing the federal claims indirect purchasers were appealed the United States Court Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, together with ruling denying certification certain proposed classes . direct purchasers. April , , the Court Appeals affirmed the trial court decision dismissing the indirect purchaser claims. Courts states have ruled that indirect purchaser cases may proceed class actions. , reached agreement with counsel for the California plaintiffs settle all claims consolidated cases that state. Under the settlement, class members will able obtain vouchers that entitle the class members reimbursed the face value their vouchers for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value vouchers issued will depend the number class members who make claim and are issued vouchers. Two-thirds the value vouchers unissued unredeemed class members will made available certain PAGE Part Item schools California the form vouchers that also may redeemed for cash against purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware, software, and related services. also have reached similar agreements settle all claims number other states. The settlements these states are structured similarly the California settlement, except that, among other differences, one-half the value vouchers unissued class members will made available certain schools the relevant states. The maximum value vouchers issued these settlements, including the California settlement, approximately $ billion. The actual costs these settlements will less than that maximum amount, depending the number class members and schools who are issued and redeem vouchers. The settlements Arizona, California, the District Columbia, Florida, Kansas, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Dakota, Tennessee, Vermont, and West Virginia have received final court approval. estimate the total cost resolve all these cases will range between $ billion and $ billion, with the actual cost dependent upon many unknown factors such the quantity and mix products for which claims will made, the number eligible class members who ultimately use the vouchers, the nature hardware and software that acquired using the vouchers, and the cost administering the claims process. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , and FIN . , Reasonable Estimation the Amount Loss, June , , have recorded liability related these claims approximately $ billion, which reflects our estimated exposure $ billion less payments made date approximately $ million, primarily for administrative expenses and legal fees. Other antitrust litigation and claims. August , , the City and County San Francisco, the City Los Angeles, and Los Angeles, San Mateo, Contra Costa, and Santa Clara Counties filed putative class action against San Francisco Superior Court. The action was brought behalf all governmental entities, agencies, and political subdivisions the State California that indirectly purchased our operating system word processing and spreadsheet software during the period from February , the date trial the action. The plaintiffs sought treble damages under California\x92 Cartwright Act and disgorgement unlawful profits under its Unfair Competition Act resulting from our alleged combinations restrain trade, deny competition, and monopolize the world markets for operating systems and word processing and spreadsheet applications (and productivity suites including these applications). removed the case the . District Court for Maryland. Our motion dismiss the complaint was granted April , with leave file amended complaint alleging claims under the Cartwright Act based conduct within the four-year statute limitation the court ruled applies the plaintiffs\x92 claims. have obtained final approval settlement this case, which resolves all claims asserted the lawsuit. November , , Novell, Inc. filed complaint the . District Court for Utah asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against related Novell\x92 ownership WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June and March . June , , the trial court granted our motion dismiss four six claims the complaint. appeal that ruling now pending and the case effectively stayed during the appeal. Patent and intellectual property claims. are defendant more than patent infringement cases that are defending vigorously. the case Eolas Technologies, Inc. and University California . Microsoft , filed the . District Court for the Northern District Illinois February , , the plaintiffs alleged infringement the browser functionality Windows. August , , the jury awarded the plaintiffs approximately $ million damages for infringement from the date the plaintiffs\x92 patent was issued through September . The plaintiffs are seeking equitable accounting for damages from September the present. January , , the trial court entered final judgment $ million, including post-trial interest $ million, and entered injunction against distribution any new infringing products, but stayed execution the judgment and the injunction pending our appeal. appealed and March , the Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the decision and vacated the judgment, ruling that the trial court had erred excluding certain previous art evidence and ruling matter law other evidence. The appellate court also reversed the trial court\x92 decision that the inventors had not engaged inequitable conduct failing reveal material previous art while obtaining the patent. believe the total cost resolve this case will not material our financial position results operations. The actual costs will dependent upon many unknown factors such the events retrial the plaintiff\x92 claims. Microsoft . Lucent , filed the . District Court San Diego April , , are seeking declaratory judgment that not infringe any valid patent among number patents Lucent has been asserting against computer manufacturers that sell computers with our software pre-installed. The first series back- -back trials the various patent groupings currently set begin November , . March , , Lucent filed new lawsuit against . District Court San Diego, claiming that Xbox violates one the patents that earlier PAGE Part Item had been dismissed from the older lawsuit. response Lucent\x92 new complaint, asserted patent infringement counterclaims accusing Lucent infringing ten Microsoft patents its sales various products. trial date has been set the new lawsuit. Amado . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the Central District California March , , the plaintiff has accused the link table functionality available Microsoft Access when used with Microsoft Excel. After jury trial, were found infringe one claim the patent and damages $ million were awarded. The judge later found for our defense laches, which reduced the damages award $ million. The court also imposed injunction against further distribution the accused feature part Microsoft Access, but stayed the injunction pending resolution all appeals. The Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the judgment appeal and Microsoft intends seek review the . Supreme Court one issue. Technologies, Inc. . Microsoft, the plaintiff alleged that Microsoft Windows and Office product activation functionality violates its patent rights. April , the jury rendered $ million verdict against . August , the trial court increased damages $ million pursuant the jury\x92 finding willful infringement. intend appeal the verdict. Veritas Operating Corporation . Microsoft , filed the . District Court for the Western District Washington May , , subsidiary Symantec has filed action asserting claims trade secret misappropriation, breach contract, and patent infringement relating certain storage technologies. Adverse outcomes some all the matters described this paragraph may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against , adversely affecting distribution our operating system application products. The risks associated with adverse decision may result material settlements. Other. are also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. While management currently believes that resolving claims against , individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position, our results operations, our cash flows, these matters are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. June , , had accrued aggregate liabilities totaling $ billion other current liabilities and $ billion other long-term liabilities for all the contingent matters described this note. While intend vigorously defend these matters, there exists the possibility adverse outcomes which estimate could $ billion aggregate beyond recorded amounts. Were unfavorable final outcome occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect becomes reasonably estimable. NOTE SEGMENT INFORMATION Segment revenue and operating income/(loss) was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Revenue Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Information Worker , , , Microsoft Business Solutions MSN , , , Mobile and Embedded Devices Home and Entertainment , , , Reconciling amounts Consolidated $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item ( millions) Year Ended June Operating Income/(Loss) Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Information Worker , , , Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) ( ) MSN Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) ( ) ( ) Home and Entertainment ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Reconciling amounts ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. This standard requires segmentation based our internal organization and reporting revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. Our financial reporting systems present various data for management operate the business, including internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. Fiscal years and amounts have been restated for certain internal reorganizations and conform the current period presentation. The segments are designed allocate resources internally and provide framework determine management responsibility. Operating segments are defined components enterprise about which separate financial information available that evaluated regularly the chief operating decision maker, decision making group, deciding how allocate resources and assessing performance. Our chief operating decision maker our Chief Executive Officer. Our seven segments are Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. July , announced change our operating segments reflecting the culmination our realignment announced September . These changes will effective for fiscal year ; the seven segments discussed this analysis are presented the way internally managed and monitored performance the business group level fiscal years , , and . The types products and services provided each segment are summarized below: Client \x96 Windows Professional and Home; Media Center Edition; Tablet Edition; and other standard Windows operating systems. Server and Tools \x96Windows Server operating system; Microsoft SQL Server; Exchange Server; Microsoft Consulting Services; product support services; Visual Studio; System Center products, Forefront security family products; and Biz Talk. Information Worker \x96 Microsoft Office; Microsoft Project; Microsoft Visio; SharePoint Portal Server client access licenses; Microsoft LiveMeeting; OneNote; and Office Communication Server. Microsoft Business Solutions \x96 Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics CRM; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics NAV; Microsoft Dynamics ; Microsoft Dynamics Retail Management System; Microsoft Partner Program; and Microsoft Office Small Business Accounting. MSN \x96 MSN Search; MapPoint; MSN Internet Access; MSN Premium Web Services (consisting MSN Internet Software Subscription, MSN Hotmail Plus, MSN Bill Pay, and MSN Radio Plus); and MSN Mobile Services. Mobile and Embedded Devices \x96 Windows Mobile software platform; Windows Embedded device operating system; and Windows Automotive. Home and Entertainment \x96 Xbox ; Xbox; Xbox Live; CPxG (consumer software and hardware products); and IPTV. Because our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments, and therefore these segments are not designed measure operating income loss directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and incent shared efforts. Management will continually PAGE Part Item evaluate the alignment product development organizations, sales organizations, and inter-segment commissions for segment reporting purposes, which may result changes segment allocations future periods. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Reconciling amounts include adjustments conform with . GAAP and corporate-level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, period-end cut-off timing, and accelerated amortization for depreciation, stock awards, and performance-based stock awards. addition, certain revenue and expenses are excluded from segments included corporate-level activity including certain legal settlements and accruals for legal contingencies. Significant reconciling items were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Operating income reconciling amounts: Legal settlements and contingent liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Revenue reconciling amounts Corporate-level expenses ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) Total $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Corporate-level expenses exclude legal settlements and contingent liabilities, stock-based compensation expense, and revenue reconciling amounts presented separately those line items. Sales Dell and its subsidiaries the aggregate accounted for approximately % fiscal year and % total fiscal year and revenue. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels and were included all operating segments. Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which our customers are located, were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes shipments customers the United States and licensing certain OEMs and multinational organizations. Long-lived assets, classified the geographic location the controlling statutory company which that company operates, were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States $ , $ , Other countries Total $ , $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE SUBSEQUENT EVENTS July , , the European Commission imposed fine \x80 million ($ million) Microsoft related the Commission\x92 March decision its competition law investigation. June , , the total amount the fine was included other current liabilities. July , , announced that our Board Directors authorized two new share repurchase programs, comprised $ billion tender offer which was completed August , , and additional $ billion ongoing share repurchase program with expiration June , . Under the tender offer, repurchased approximately million shares our common stock, approximately % our common stock outstanding, for approximately $ billion per share price $ . August , , announced that the authorization for the ongoing share repurchase program, previously announced July , , had been increased approximately $ billion. result, the company authorized repurchase additional shares amount $ billion through June , . PAGE Part Item QUARTERLY INFORMATION ( millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Total Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , ( ) , ( ) , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Includes stock-based compensation charges totaling $ billion for the employee stock option transfer program. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ billion (pre-tax) related the Sun Microsystems Inc. settlement and fine imposed the European Commission. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related the settlement certain litigation with Novell, Inc. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related the Gateway, Inc. and Burst com settlements, Sun Microsystems, Inc., and additional charges related anti-trust and certain other matters. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related IBM and other matters. ( ) Includes charge $ million (pre-tax) related the settlement with RealNetworks, Inc. ( ) Includes charges $ million (pre-tax) related various legal charges. ( ) Includes charge \x80 million ($ million)(pre-tax) result the fine imposed the European Commission July . PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated August , , expressed unqualified opinion management\x92 assessment the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting and unqualified opinion the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington August , PAGE Part Item , ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. REPORT MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control over financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability our financial reporting for external purposes accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary for preparation our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures company assets are made accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use disposition company assets that could have material effect our financial statements would prevented detected timely basis. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting not intended provide absolute assurance that misstatement our financial statements would prevented detected. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Based this evaluation, management concluded that the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was effective June , . There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited this assessment our internal control over financial reporting; their report included Item . PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited management\x92 assessment, included the accompanying Report Management Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. The Company\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility express opinion management\x92 assessment and opinion the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management\x92 assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinions. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed , under the supervision , the company\x92 principal executive and principal financial officers, persons performing similar functions, and effected the company\x92 board directors, management, and other personnel provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because the inherent limitations internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility collusion improper management override controls, material misstatements due error fraud may not prevented detected timely basis. Also, projections any evaluation the effectiveness the internal control over financial reporting future periods are subject the risk that the controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, management\x92 assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting June , , fairly stated, all material respects, based the criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Also our opinion, the Company maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and for the year ended June , the Company and our report dated August , expressed unqualified opinion those financial statements. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington August , PAGE Part , III Item , , , , , ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION Effective August , , the Board Directors amended the Company\x92 bylaws. The Board added new Section concerning the right shareholders amend the bylaws, which they already have pursuant the Washington Business Corporation Act. The board also added new paragraph Section incorporate the Board\x92 previous governance policy election directors. The Board added additional procedures that would followed director does not receive majority shares cast uncontested election. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT list our executive officers and biographical information appears Part , Item this report. Information about our Directors may found under the caption \x93Election Directors and Management Information\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website www microsoft com msft. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature such amendment waiver that website report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation\x94 and \x93Information About the Board and its Committees \x96 Director Compensation\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 and \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth under the captions \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the heading \x93Fees Billed Deloitte & Touche LLP\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PAGE Part Item PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Annual Report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Exhibit Listing Incorporated reference Exhibit number Exhibit description Filed herewith Form Period ending Exhibit Filing date Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation - Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Call Option Transaction Confirmation dated December , between Microsoft Corporation and JPMorgan Chase Bank - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors - * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the January , June , performance period - PAGE Part Item Incorporated reference Exhibit number Exhibit description Filed herewith Form Period ending Exhibit Filing date * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the July , June , performance period - * Form Stock Option Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) - Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors - Subsidiaries Registrant Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement PAGE ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}