{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple" the "Company") was incorporated under the laws the State California January , . The Company\' principal executive offices are located Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California, and its telephone number ( ) - . The Company designs, manufactures and markets microprocessor-based personal computers and related personal computing and communicating solutions for sale primarily education, creative, home, business and government customers. Substantially all the Company\' net sales date have been derived from the sale personal computers from its Apple Macintosh-Registered Trademark- line computers and related software and peripherals. The Company operates one principal industry segment across geographically diverse marketplaces. During , the Company continued implement certain restructuring actions aimed reducing its cost structure, improving its competitiveness, and restoring sustainable profitability. The Company\' restructuring actions have included the termination employees, closure facilities and cancellation contracts. Further information regarding these restructuring actions may found Part , Item this Annual Report Form - (the "Form - ") under the subheading "Restructuring Operations" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Restructuring Operations," which information hereby incorporated reference. PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS Apple Macintosh personal computers were first introduced , and are characterized their intuitive ease use, innovative applications base, and built- networking, graphics and multimedia capabilities. The Company offers wide range personal computing products, including personal computers, related peripherals, software, and networking and connectivity products. All the Company\' Macintosh products employ PowerPC- - RISC-based microprocessors. POWER MACINTOSH The Power Macintosh "Flagship" line high-performance personal computers targeted business and professional users and designed meet the speed, expansion and networking needs the most demanding Macintosh user. These Power Macintosh products not only support virtually all existing Macintosh applications, but can also run -DOS and Windows applications when using SoftWindows- - software from Insignia Solutions Virtual - - software from Connectix Corporation. The Power Macintosh "Value" line personal computers designed appeal primarily academic, consumer and first-time personal computer users. Many these products feature all- -one box computing solutions, including software and hardware chosen specifically with home and education users mind. MACINTOSH POWERBOOK The PowerBook family portable computer products specifically designed for mobile computing needs. All PowerBook personal computers include software designed enhance mobile computing. PERIPHERAL PRODUCTS The Company sells certain associated computer peripherals including LaserWriter-Registered Trademark- printers and range color monitors. MESSAGEPAD AND EMATE The Apple MessagePad-Registered Trademark- communications assistant employs the Company\' proprietary Newton-Registered Trademark-technology hand-held mobile computer that intelligently assists the user capturing, organizing and communicating information using built- business software programs, including word processing, Internet -mail and spreadsheet applications. The Apple eMate integrates Newton technology mobile computer designed for use primarily education. The eMate allows students enter data keyboard stylus and share data and files with each other, and with Mac -Registered Trademark- and Windows-Registered Trademark- software-based computers, send and receive -mail, and access the Internet. The eMate includes built- word processing, drawing and spreadsheet applications. OPERATING SYSTEM SOFTWARE AND APPLICATION SOFTWARE The Company\' operating system software, its proprietary Macintosh system software called Mac , provides Macintosh computers with easy, consistent user interface and built- networking capability based its AppleTalk networking standard, well other industry networking standards, and ensures integration hardware and software. The Company also develops and distributes extensions the Macintosh system software, such utilities, languages, developer tools, and educational software. Claris Corporation, wholly-owned subsidiary the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes application software variety established personal productivity categories, such database management, for Mac and Windows-based systems. Claris-Registered Trademark- products are distributed primarily through independent software resellers. The Company plans continue introduce major upgrades the current Mac and later introduce new operating system (code named "Rhapsody") which expected offer advanced functionality based software technologies Apple and those NeXT Software, Inc. ("NeXT") which the Company acquired . The Company previously entered into agreements license its Mac other personal computer vendors (the "Clone Vendors") part effort increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform. The Company recently determined that the benefits licensing the Mac the Clone Vendors under these agreements were more than offset the impact and costs the licensing program. result, the Company agreed acquire certain assets, including the license distribute the Mac , Power Computing Corporation ("PCC"), Clone Vendor, and has plans renew its other Mac licensing agreements. SERVERS The Workgroup Server family products provides file, print, Internet, and application services, varying size workgroups. These products also provide Apple system connectivity local area networks, and interoperability with other computers and computing environments. INTERNET INTEGRATION Apple\' Internet strategy focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\' product lines. Further information regarding the Company\' products may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Competition" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. MARKETS AND DISTRIBUTION The Company\' customers are primarily the education, creative, home, business and government markets. Certain customers are attracted Macintosh computers for variety reasons, including the availability wide variety certain application software, the reduced amount training resulting from the Macintosh computer\' intuitive ease use, and the ability Macintosh computers network and communicate with other computer systems and environments. Apple personal computers were first introduced education customers the late 1970s. the ., the Company one the major suppliers personal computers for both elementary and secondary school customers, well for college and university customers. The Company also substantial supplier institutions higher education outside the . The . represents the Company\' largest geographic marketplace. The . part the Apple Americas organization which focuses the Company\' sales, marketing, and support efforts North and South America. Products sold the western hemisphere are primarily manufactured the Company\' facilities California and Singapore, and under contract SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI") facility Colorado, and are distributed from the Company\' facility California and from third-party facility Illinois. Approximately % % the Company\' revenues recent years have come from its international operations. The Company\' international sales and services divisions consist : Apple Americas; Apple Europe, Middle East and Africa ("Apple EMEA"); Apple Japan; and Apple Asia Pacific (which does not include Japan). The marketing divisions focus sales, marketing and distribution their regions. Products sold Apple EMEA are manufactured primarily the Company\' facility Cork, Ireland. Products sold Apple Americas, Apple Japan, and Apple Asia Pacific are manufactured primarily the Company\' facilities California and Singapore, and the SCI facility Colorado. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, mass merchants, cataloguers, and direct education institutions (collectively referred "resellers"). addition, November the Company began selling many its products directly end users the . through the Company\' -line store. The Company has recently revised its channel program, including decreasing the number resellers and reducing returns, price protection and certain rebate programs, effort reduce channel inventory, increase inventory turns, and increase product support within the channel. summary the Company\' geographic financial information may found Part , Item this Form - under Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Industry Segment and Geographic Information," which information hereby incorporated reference. RAW MATERIALS Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single sources. Any availability limitations, interruption supplies, price increases relative these and other components could adversely affect the Company\' business and financial results. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source, until the Company has evaluated whether there need for additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, there may initial capacity constraints until such time the suppliers\' yields have matured. Components are normally acquired through purchase orders, common the industry, typically covering the Company\' requirements for periods from days. However, the Company continues evaluate the need for supply contract each situation. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed, the Company\' ability ship the related product utilizing that component desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. The Company believes that the suppliers whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\' business and financial position include, this time: Canon, Inc., General Electric ., IBM Corporation, Motorola, Inc., Sharp Corporation, Sony Corporation, Texas Instruments, Inc., VLSI Technology, Inc., Quanta Computer, Inc., Quantum Corporation, NatSteel Electronics Pte. Ltd., and SCI. The Company attempts mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and manufacturing schedules and levels. The Company believes that many its single-source suppliers, including most the foregoing companies, are reliable multinational corporations. The Company also believes most these suppliers manufacture the relevant components multiple plants. The Company further believes that its long-standing business relationships with these and other key suppliers are strong and mutually beneficial nature. The Company has also from time time experienced significant price increases and limited availability certain components that are available from multiple sources. Any similar occurrences the future could have adverse affect the Company\' operating results. The Company obligated purchase certain percentages its total annual volumes CPUs and logic boards from SCI over each the next two years. Further discussion relating availability and supply components and product may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Inventory and Supply" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product" included under the heading "Concentrations Risk," and under the subheading "Purchase Commitments" included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer and peripheral systems. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks the . and number foreign countries for "Apple", the Apple silhouette logo, the Apple color logo, "Macintosh", "Newton", the Newton Lightbulb logo, "Claris" and numerous other product trademarks. , the Company acquired ownership the trademark "Macintosh" for use connection with computer products. Although the Company believes that the ownership such patents, copyrights, and trademarks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible that certain components the Company\' products may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company believes the resolution any claim infringements would not have material adverse effect its financial condition and results operations reported the accompanying financial statements. However, depending the amount and timing unfavorable resolution any such claims infringement, possible that the Company\' future results operations cash flow could materially affected particular period. The Company has from time time entered into cross-licensing agreements with other companies. SEASONAL BUSINESS Although the Company does not consider its business highly seasonal, has historically experienced increased sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters, compared other quarters its fiscal year, due seasonal demand related the beginning the school year and the holiday season. However, past performance should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future revenue financial performance. WARRANTY The Company offers parts and labor limited warranty its hardware products. The warranty period typically one year from the date purchase the end user. The Company also offers -day warranty for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage all Apple hardware products. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS customer accounted for more than % the Company\' net sales , . BACKLOG For information regarding the Company\' backlog, refer Part , Item this Form - , under the subheading "Backlog", which included under the heading "Net Sales", which information hereby incorporated reference. COMPETITION The market for the design, manufacture and sale personal computers, personal communications devices, and related software and peripheral products highly competitive. continues characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software development that have substantially increased the capabilities and applications these products, and has resulted the frequent introduction new products. The principal competitive factors this market are relative price performance, product quality and reliability, availability software, product features, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, availability hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. The Company currently the primary maker hardware that uses the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers that run the Microsoft Windows and Windows operating systems. The Company believes that the Mac , with its perceived advantages over Windows, and the general reluctance the Macintosh installed base incur the costs switching platforms, have been driving forces behind sales the Company\' personal computer hardware for the past several years. Recent innovations the Windows platform, including those included Windows and Windows , those expected included new version Windows introduced , have added features the Windows platform that make the differences between the Mac and Microsoft\' Windows operating systems less significant. The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result the recent innovations the Windows platform. The Company\' future consolidated operating results and financial condition substantially dependent its ability maintain continuing improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived functional advantages over competing platforms. Further discussion relating the competitive conditions the personal computing industry and the Company\' competitive position the market place may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Competition," included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Provisions for Inventory Write-downs and Related Accruals" under the heading "Significant Accounting Estimates", which information hereby incorporated reference. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Because the personal computer industry characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\' ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow competitive products the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas hardware and peripherals, system software, networking and communications, and the Internet. The Company\' research and development expenditures, before charge for -process research and development , totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Further information regarding the Company\' & expenditures for , and set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Research and Development," which information hereby incorporated reference. For information regarding -process research and development charges taken refer Part , Item this Form - under the subheading " -Process Research and Development," under the heading "Special Charges." ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS Compliance with . federal, state, and local laws and foreign laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect upon the Company\' capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, assurance can given that such laws, any future laws enacted for the protection the environment, will not have material adverse effect the Company. EMPLOYEES September , , Apple and its subsidiaries worldwide had , regular employees, and additional , temporary part-time contractors and employees. FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA Information regarding financial data geographic area and the risks associated with international operations set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Industry Segment and Geographic Information," and Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks," included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and domestic sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and anti-dumping penalties. ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, Cork and Dublin, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms five additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Cork and Dublin, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately one million square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center. addition, the Company owns , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the ., the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. Certain the Company\' office, manufacturing and distribution facilities owned the Company Sacramento, California, Singapore and the United Kingdom are currently being held for sale part the Company\' restructuring plan, which includes increasing the proportion the Company\' products manufactured and distributed under outsourcing arrangements. Further information regarding the Company\' restructuring plan may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheadings "Restructuring Operations " included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Restructuring Operations," which information hereby incorporated reference. The Company believes that its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and external partnerships, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future even after the sale the foregoing facilities. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Other Factors" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Information regarding legal proceedings set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Litigation," included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . PART ITEM . MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT\' COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. Options are traded the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the American Stock Exchange. Information regarding the Company\' high and low reported closing prices for its common stock and the number shareholders record set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)", which information hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere this Form - . FIVE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ----------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales.................................................. $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss).......................................... $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ $ $ Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share..... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share................... $ -- $ $ $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings (loss) per share ( thousands)............................................... , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments......... $ , $ , $ $ , $ Total assets............................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt............................................. $ $ $ $ $ Shareholders\' equity....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ITEM . MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS THIS SECTION AND OTHER PARTS THIS FORM - CONTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THE COMPANY\' ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE RESULTS DISCUSSED THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. FACTORS THAT MIGHT CAUSE SUCH DIFFERENCES INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED , THOSE DISCUSSED THE SUBSECTION ENTITLED "FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION" BELOW. THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION SHOULD READ CONJUNCTION WITH THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES THERETO INCLUDED ELSEWHERE THIS FORM - . ALL INFORMATION BASED THE COMPANY\' FISCAL CALENDAR. OVERVIEW During , the Company continued experience declines net sales, units shipped and share the personal computer market compared prior years. The decline demand and the resulting losses, coupled with intense price competition throughout the industry, led the Company\' decision continue restructure its business during aimed reducing its core structure, improving its competitiveness and restoring sustainable profitability. The Company\' restructuring efforts have included significant headcount reductions, simplifications and modifications the Company\' product lines, increases the proportion products manufactured under outsourcing arrangements and the implementation -line store the . addition, the Company plans increase the proportion products manufactured made- -order basis The Company believes that restructuring actions effected through the fourth quarter , well those currently planned effected during , will decrease operating expenses compared with . There assurance that such decreases operating expenses will achieved that, achieved, such reductions will sufficient offset the decline the Company\' net sales. February , the Company acquired NeXT. NeXT developed, marketed and supported software that enables customers implement business applications the Internet World Wide Web, intranets and enterprise-wide client server networks. The acquisition was accounted for purchase and, accordingly, the operating results pertaining NeXT subsequent the date acquisition have been included the Company\' consolidated operating results. The total purchase price, including the fair value the net liabilities assumed, was $ million which $ million was allocated purchased -process research and development and $ million was allocated goodwill and other intangible assets. The purchased -process research and development was charged operations upon acquisition, and the goodwill and other tangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over two years. The Company had previously entered into agreements license its Mac other personal computer vendors (the "Clone Vendors") part effort increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform. The Company recently determined that the benefits licensing the Mac the Clone Vendors under these agreements were more than offset the impact and costs the licensing program. result, the Company agreed acquire certain assets, including the license distribute the Mac , PCC, clone vendor, and has plans renew its other Mac licensing agreements. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent upon the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet dynamic customer demand patterns, and are also dependent upon its ability effect change marketplace perception the Company\' prospects, including the viability the Macintosh platform. Inherent this process are number factors that the Company must successfully manage order achieve favorable future operating results and favorable financial condition. Potential risks and uncertainties that could affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition include, among other things, continued competitive pressures the marketplace and the effect any reaction the Company such competitive pressures, including pricing actions the Company; the availability key components terms acceptable the Company; the Company\' ability supply products certain categories; the Company\' ability supply products free latent defects other faults; the Company\' ability make timely delivery the marketplace technological innovations, including its ability continue make timely delivery planned enhancements the current Mac and make timely delivery new and substantially backward-compatible operating system; the Company\' ability successfully integrate NeXT technologies, processes and employees with those Apple; the Company\' ability successfully implement its strategic direction and restructuring actions, including reducing its expenditures; the Company\' ability attract, motivate and retain employees, including new Chief Executive Officer; the effects significant adverse publicity; the availability third-party software for particular applications; and the impact the Company\' sales, market share and gross margins result the Company winding down its Mac licensing program. RESULTS OPERATIONS CHANGE CHANGE --------- ----------- --------- ----------- --------- (TABULAR INFORMATION: DOLLARS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales................................................ $ , ( %) $ , ( %) $ , Gross margin............................................. $ , % $ ( %) $ , Percentage net sales................................ % % % Research and development................................. $ ( %) $ ( %) $ Percentage net sales................................ % % % Selling, general and administrative...................... $ , ( %) $ , ( %) $ , Percentage net sales................................ % % % Special Charges -process research and development.................... $ $ -- $ -- Percentage net sales.............................. % --% --% Restructuring costs.................................... $ % $ $ ( ) Percentage net sales.............................. % % --% Termination license agreement....................... $ $ -- $ -- Percentage net sales.............................. % --% --% Interest and other income (expense), net................. $ ( %) $ $ ( ) Net income (loss)........................................ $ ( , ) ( %) $ ( ) ( %) $ Earnings (loss) per share................................ $ ( ) ( %) $ ( ) ( %) $ - ------------------------ : Not Meaningful NET SALES YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , Net sales represent the Company\' gross sales net returns, rebates and discounts. Net sales decreased % compared with . Total Macintosh computer unit sales and peripheral unit sales decreased % and %, respectively, during , compared with , result decline worldwide demand for most the Company\' product families, which the Company believes was due principally continued customer concerns regarding the Company\' strategic direction, financial condition and future prospects, and the viability the Macintosh platform, and competitive pressures the marketplace. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit decreased slightly compared with , primarily due continued pricing actions, including increased rebates, across most product lines, substantially offset shift product mix toward the Company\' newer and higher priced PowerBook products. The average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit did not change compared with . For information regarding quarterly net sales, see "Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)" Part , Item this Form - . International net sales represented % total net sales compared with % net sales . International net sales declined % compared with . Net sales European markets and Japan decreased during compared with , result decreases Macintosh computer and peripheral unit sales and the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit Japan, which were partially offset increase the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit. Further discussion relating factors contributing the decline net sales the Japanese market may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Domestic net sales declined % during compared with , due decreases unit sales Macintosh computers and peripheral products and the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit the . did not change compared with . During , compared with , the Company\' estimated share the worldwide and . personal computer markets declined % from %, and % from %, respectively, based upon current market information provided industry sources. The Company believes that net sales will below the level the prior year\' comparable periods through least the second fiscal quarter , not longer. COMPARED WITH Net sales decreased % the fourth quarter compared with the same quarter . Total Macintosh computer unit sales and peripheral unit sales decreased % and %, respectively, the fourth quarter , compared with the same period , which the Company believes was due principally continued customer concerns regarding the Company\' strategic direction, financial condition and future prospects, and the viability the Macintosh platform, and competitive pressures the marketplace. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit decreased slightly the fourth quarter compared with the same period , result continued pricing actions, including increased rebates, across most product lines, partially offset increase the average aggregate revenue per Powerbook unit. The average aggregate revenue per peripheral product also decreased slightly for the foregoing reasons. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer unit and per peripheral unit will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including industrywide pricing pressures, increased competition, and the need stimulate demand for the Company\' products. International net sales represented % total net sales the fourth quarter compared with % net sales the same period . International net sales declined % the fourth quarter compared with the same period . Net sales decreased the European markets and decreased significantly Japan during the fourth quarter compared with the same period , result decreases Macintosh and peripheral unit sales Europe and Japan and the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit the European markets and the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit Japan. These decreases were partially offset increases the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit Europe and the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit Japan. Further discussion relating factors contributing the decline net sales the Japanese market may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Domestic net sales declined % the fourth quarter over the comparable period , due decreases unit sales Macintosh computers and peripheral products and the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit, partially offset increase the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit. During the fourth quarter compared with the comparable period , the Company\' estimated share the worldwide and . personal computer markets declined % from %, and % from %, respectively, based upon current market information provided industry sources. COMPARED WITH Net sales decreased % the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter . Total Macintosh computer unit sales decreased % the fourth quarter compared with the prior quarter which the Company believes was due principally continued customer concerns regarding the Company\' strategic direction, financial condition and future prospects, and the viability the Macintosh platform, and competitive pressures the marketplace, well continued easing pent- demand for new PowerBook products which were introduced the second quarter. addition, unit sales Japan decreased significantly the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter , primarily result weaker personal computer market. Unit sales peripheral products decreased slightly the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter . The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer unit remained constant higher average aggregate revenue per "Value" (entry level Power Macintosh) unit was offset lower average aggregate revenue per Powerbook unit and aggressive pricing discontinued products. The average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit decreased % the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter . Furthermore, the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer and peripheral unit was unfavorably affected pricing actions, including increased rebates, across most product lines. International net sales represented % total net sales the fourth quarter , compared with % the third quarter . International net sales decreased % the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter , primarily result significant decrease net sales Macintosh computers and peripheral products Japan and decrease the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit, slightly offset increase the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit. Further discussion relating factors contributing the decline net sales the Japanese market may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Domestic net sales increased % the fourth quarter compared with the prior quarter, due increases Macintosh and peripheral unit sales and the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer unit, which increases were slightly offset decrease the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit. During the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter , the Company\' estimated share the worldwide and . personal computer markets decreased % from %, and % from %, respectively, based upon current market information provided industry sources. YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , Net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing $ , million, %; $ , million, %; and $ million, %; during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods , due decrease net sales Macintosh computers and peripheral products. Total Macintosh computer unit sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods . This decline unit sales was result decline lack growth worldwide demand for all product families, which the Company believes was due principally customer concerns regarding the Company\' strategic direction, financial condition, and future prospects, and due delays the shipment certain PowerBook products result quality problems. addition, unit sales peripheral products trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % during the twelve, nine and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods , for the reasons noted above. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased slightly during the twelve and three months ended September , , and decreased slightly during the nine months ended September , , compared with the same periods , primarily due continued shift product mix toward the Company\' newer products and products with multimedia configurations, offset varying degrees pricing actions across all product lines. The average aggregate revenue per peripheral product was flat during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods . International net sales represented % net sales compared with % net sales . International net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, % and % during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods . Net sales European markets trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods , result decrease Macintosh and peripheral unit sales, partially offset increase the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh and per peripheral unit, primarily during the first part the year. Net sales Japan trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods . increase Macintosh unit sales during these periods was more than offset decrease the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh and per peripheral unit and decrease peripheral unit sales. Domestic net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % for the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the corresponding periods , resulting from decline lack growth demand for all product families. the fourth quarter compared with the fourth quarter , the Company\' share the worldwide and . personal computer markets declined % from %, and % from %, respectively, based current information provided industry sources. BACKLOG general, the Company\' resellers purchase products -needed basis. Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates depending changing market conditions. Unfilled orders (backlog) can , and often are, canceled will. The Company attempts fill orders the requested delivery schedules. However, products may relatively short supply from time time until production volumes have reached level sufficient meet demand other production fulfillment constraints exist. The Company\' backlog unfilled orders decreased approximately $ million November , from approximately $ million November , and consisted primarily the Company\' "Flagship" line higher-end Power Macintosh products. The Company\' backlog November , consisted primarily the Company\' PowerBook products, well the Company\' "Flagship" line higher-end Power Macintosh products. The Company expects that substantially all its orders backlog November , will either shipped canceled during fiscal . the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following introduction new products because overordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, well other factors affecting the Company\' backlog, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Further information regarding the Company\' backlog may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Product Introductions and Transitions" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. GROSS MARGIN Gross margin represents the difference between the Company\' net sales and its cost goods sold. The amount revenue generated per unit sold influenced the price set the Company for its products. The cost goods sold based primarily the cost components and, lesser extent, direct labor costs. The type and cost components included particular configurations the Company\' products (such memory and disk drives) are often directly related the need market products configurations competitive with other manufacturers. Competition the personal computer industry intense and, the short term, frequent changes pricing and product configuration are often necessary order remain competitive. Accordingly, gross margin percentage net sales can significantly influenced the short term actions undertaken the Company response industrywide competitive pressures. Gross margin increased from % % sales during compared , primarily result $ million charge the second quarter that related principally the write-down certain inventory, well the cost cancelling excess component orders necessitated significantly lower than expected demand for many the Company\' products, primarily its "Value" line Power Macintosh products (formerly generally referred entry level and Performa-Registered Trademark- products). The Company separately incurred approximately $ million charges during provide for the estimated costs correcting certain quality problems certain its "Value" line Power Macintosh products, well PowerBook and peripheral products, covering both goods held inventory and shipped goods. addition, gross margins the second quarter , and lesser degree the first quarter that year, were adversely affected aggressive pricing actions Japan response extreme competitive actions other companies, well price reductions the United States and Europe across all product lines order stimulate demand. Gross margin decreased from % % sales during the fourth quarter compared the same period , and remained constant compared the third quarter . This was primarily result certain pricing actions effected the Company noted above, well the Company\' inability fulfill all purchase orders certain high-margin Power Macintosh product due the unavailability sufficient quantities certain components, which were offset varying degrees sales the Company\' new operating system, Mac , during the fourth quarter . The gross margin levels the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter and the fourth quarter , and compared with , were also adversely affected stronger . dollar relative certain foreign currencies. This negative impact was offset currency hedging. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account changes exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. There can assurance that the Company will able sustain the gross margin levels achieved . Gross margins will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industrywide global pricing pressures, increased competition, and compressed product life cycles. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. The Company expects experience additional pricing pressure through least the first fiscal quarter result the Company winding down its Mac licensing program, including the acquisition its Mac license and other assets Power Computing Corporation ("PCC"), the Company expects certain Mac licensees sell aggressively their remaining inventory early fiscal . Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage quality problems and warranty costs, and stimulate demand for certain its products. Gross margin decreased % compared with % . This decrease primarily the result $ million charge the second quarter for the write-down certain inventory, well the costs cancelling excess component orders, necessitated significantly lower than expected demand for many the Company\' products, primarily its entry-level products. The Company separately incurred approximately $ million charges during the last nine months provide for the estimated costs correcting certain quality problems certain the "Value" line Power Macintosh products well PowerBook and peripheral products, covering both goods held inventory and shipped goods. The Company also incurred greater warranty expenses per unit sold during compared with . The decrease gross margin was also due the Company\' response extreme competitive actions other companies attempting gain market share, including the Company\' pricing actions the ., Japan and Europe across most product lines, which were partially offset decrease the cost certain product components. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CHANGE CHANGE --------- ----------- --------- ------------- --------- Research and development......................................... $ ( %) $ ( %) $ Percentage net sales........................................ % % % Research and development expenditures decreased dollar amounts when compared with , primarily due certain restructuring actions, including reduction headcount and the cancellation certain research and development related contracts, taken during . The increase research and development expenses percentage net sales resulted from decrease the level net sales. There was slight decrease research and development expenditures during compared with . The slight increase percentage net sales over was the result decrease net sales during . The Company believes that continued and focused investments research and development are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related continued, timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. The Company believes that research and development expenditures will decrease compared the Company completes and more fully realizes the cost reduction benefits its restructuring plan. Information relating -process research and development may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading " -process Research and Development" included under the heading "Special Charges," which information hereby incorporated reference. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE CHANGE CHANGE --------- ----------- --------- ------------- --------- Selling, general and administrative......................... $ , ( %) $ , ( %) $ , Percentage net sales................................... % % % Selling, general and administrative expenditures decreased dollar amounts when compared , primarily due certain restructuring actions, including reduction headcount, the closing facilities, and the writedown assets, taken during , and lower variable expenses. The increase selling, general and administrative expenditures percentage net sales resulted from decrease the level net sales. , selling, general and administrative expenditures remained essentially flat when compared . The increase percentage net sales over was the result decrease net sales during . The Company believes that selling, general and administrative expenditures will decrease compared the Company completes and more fully realizes the cost reduction benefits its restructuring plan. The Company believes that selling, general and administrative expenditures will decrease only slightly the first quarter compared the fourth quarter result continued cost reduction benefits from the restructuring plan, partially offset planned advertising spending. SPECIAL CHARGES -PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT result the NeXT acquisition, the Company took substantial charge for -process research and development during . Further discussion relating the Company\' acquisition NeXT, including the related -process research and development charge, may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "NeXT Acquisition" included under the heading "Special Charges", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information relating the Company\' research and development expenditures, may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Research and Development" and Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Research and Development," which information hereby incorporated reference. RESTRUCTURING COSTS Information relating the Company\' restructuring costs may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading "Restructuring Operations" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Restructuring Operations" included under the heading "Special Charges," which information hereby incorporated reference. TERMINATION LICENSE AGREEMENT Information relating the Company\' termination license agreement may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading "Competition" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Termination License Agreement" included under the heading "Special Charges," which information hereby incorporated reference. INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET CHANGE CHANGE ----- ----------- ----- ----------- --------- Interest and other income (expense), net............................ $ ( %) $ $ ( ) Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $ million from $ million . The decrease primarily due gains realized sales available-for-sale and other securities. Interest and other income (expense), net, also decreased compared the prior year due decreased foreign exchange gains, net cost, compared , partially offset higher average cash balances during . Over the last two years, the Company\' debt ratings have been downgraded non-investment grade. The Company\' cost funds may increase result the downgrading the second quarter its senior and subordinated long-term debt and Caa2, respectively, Moody\' Investor Services, and the downgrading October its senior and subordinated long-term debt - and CCC, respectively, Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency. , interest and other income (expense), net, increased $ million income from $ million expense . This $ million favorable change was primarily composed favorable variance $ million related net realized and unrealized foreign exchange hedging gains and lower foreign exchange hedging costs, primarily result lower market and option volatility, higher . interest rates compared with rates abroad, and reduced foreign currency cash flows; increase $ million related realized gains the sale most the Company\' available-for-sale and other equity securities during , partially offset $ million unfavorable variance, result higher average debt balances and lower average cash balances during , and overall decline average interest rate yields. summary the Company\' interest and other income (expense), net, hedge horizons and accounting for financial instruments, and notes payable banks and long-term debt, may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. PROVISION (BENEFIT) FOR INCOME TAXES September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. substantial portion this asset realizable based the ability offset existing deferred tax liabilities. , increase the valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses which may not realized. Realization approximately $ million the asset representing tax loss and credit carryforwards dependent the Company\' ability generate approximately $ million future . taxable income. Management believes that more likely than not that forecasted . income, including income that may generated result certain tax-planning strategies, will sufficient utilize the tax carryforwards prior their expiration and fully recover this asset. However, there can assurance that the Company will meet its expectations future . income. result, the amount the deferred tax assets considered realizable could reduced the near and long term estimates future taxable . income are reduced. Such occurrence could materially adversely affect the Company\' financial results. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. Additional information relating income taxes, may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION RESTRUCTURING OPERATIONS During , the Company began implement certain restructuring actions aimed reducing its cost structure, improving its competitiveness, and restoring sustainable profitability. During , the Company announced and began implement supplemental restructuring actions, including significant headcount reductions, meet the foregoing objectives. There are several risks inherent the Company\' efforts transition new cost structure. These include the risk that the Company will not able reduce expenditures quickly enough restore sustainable profitability and the risk that cost-cutting initiatives will impair the Company\' ability innovate and remain competitive the computer industry. Implementation this restructuring involves several risks, including the risk that simplifying and modifying its product line the Company will increase its dependence fewer products, potentially reduce overall sales, and increase its reliance unproven products and technology. Another risk the restructuring that increasing the proportion the Company\' products manufactured under outsourcing arrangements, the Company could lose control the quality quantity the products manufactured and distributed, lose the flexibility make timely changes production schedules order respond changing market conditions. part its restructuring, the Company announced and opened its -line store, which makes available most its products end-users the ., November . There can assurance the -line store will result greater sales. The Company also began manufacturing products build- -order basis November . There can assurance this manufacturing process will result decreased costs increased gross margins. The Company also reducing the number wholesale and retail channel partners, particularly the Americas, which places greater volume sales through fewer partners. There can assurance that this will not adversely impact the Company. addition, the actions taken connection with the restructuring could adversely affect employee morale, thereby damaging the Company\' ability retain and motivate employees. Also, because the Company contemplates relying greater extent collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, the Company will have less direct control over certain its research and development efforts, and its ability create innovative new products may reduced. addition, there can assurance that the technologies acquired from NeXT will successfully exploited, that key NeXT employees and processes will retained and successfully integrated with those Apple. Also, the restructuring includes the winding down the Company\' Mac licensing program. There can assurance that the winding down this program will result greater sales, market share, and increased gross margins the Company. addition, there can assurance that this action will not result the availability fewer application software titles for the Mac , which may result decrease the Company\' sales, market share and gross margins. Finally, even the restructuring successfully implemented, there can assurance that will effectively resolve the various issues currently facing the Company. Although the Company believes that the actions taking connection with the restructuring, including its acquisition NeXT and the winding down its Mac licensing program, should help restore marketplace confidence the Company, there can assurance that such actions will enable the Company achieve its objectives reducing its cost structure, improving its competitiveness, and restoring sustainable profitability. The Company\' future consolidated operating results and financial condition could adversely affected should encounter difficulty effectively managing the restructuring and new cost structure. Additional information relating the restructuring operations may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Restructuring Operations" included under the heading "Special Charges," which information hereby incorporated reference. PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS AND TRANSITIONS Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continuously introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products order remain competitive. Recent introductions include certain PowerBook and Power Macintosh products, and the introduction Mac July . The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. addition, although the number new product introductions may decrease result the Company\' restructuring actions, the risks and uncertainties associated with new product introductions may increase the Company refocuses its product offerings key growth segments and the extent new product introductions are markets that are new the Company. The rate product shipments immediately following introduction new product not necessarily indication the future rate shipments for that product, which depends many factors, some which are not under the control the Company. These factors may include initial large purchases small segment the user population that tends purchase new technology prior its acceptance the majority users ("early adopters"); purchases satisfaction pent- demand users who anticipated new technology and, result, deferred purchases other products; and overordering dealers who anticipate shortages due the aforementioned factors. These factors may offset others, such the deferral purchases many users until new technology accepted "proven" and for which commonly used software products are available; and the reduction orders dealers once they believe they can obtain sufficient supply products previously backlog. Backlog often volatile after new product introductions due the aforementioned demand factors, often increasing coincident with introduction, and then decreasing once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply the new products. The Company has the past experienced difficulty anticipating demand for new products, resulting product shortages which have adversely affected the Company\' operating results. The measurement demand for newly introduced products further complicated the availability different product configurations, which may include various types built- peripherals and software. Configurations may also require certain localization (such language) for various markets and, result, demand different geographic areas may function the availability third-party software those localized versions. For example, the availability European-language versions software products manufactured . producers may lag behind the availability . versions quarter more. This may result lower initial demand for the Company\' new products outside the ., even though localized versions the Company\' products may available. The increasing integration new enhanced functions and complexity operations the Company\' products also increase the risk that latent defects other faults could discovered customers end-users after volumes products have been produced shipped. such defects were significant, the Company could incur material recall and replacement costs under product warranties. The Company has announced plans for two operating systems. The Company plans continue introduce major upgrades the current Mac and later introduce new operating system (code named "Rhapsody") which expected offer advanced functionality based Apple and NeXT software technologies. However, the NeXT software technologies that the Company plans use the development Rhapsody were not originally designed compatible with the Mac . result, there can assurance that the development Rhapsody can completed reasonable cost all. addition, Rhapsody may not fully backward-compatible with all existing applications, which could result loss existing customers. Finally, uncertain whether Rhapsody the planned enhancements the current Mac will gain developer support and market acceptance. Inability successfully develop and make timely delivery substantially backward-compatible Rhapsody planned enhancements the current Mac , gain developer support and market acceptance for those operating systems, may have adverse impact the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition. COMPETITION The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. The Company\' consolidated results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected industrywide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality and hardware performance and features based existing emerging industry standards. Many the Company\' competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. The Company\' future consolidated operating results and financial condition may affected overall demand for personal computers and general customer preferences for one platform over another one set product features over another. The Company currently the primary maker hardware that uses the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers that run the Microsoft Windows and Windows operating systems. The Company believes that the Mac , with its perceived advantages over Windows, and the general reluctance the Macintosh installed base incur the costs switching platforms, have been driving forces behind sales the Company\' personal computer hardware for the past several years. Recent innovations the Windows platform, including those included Windows and Windows , those expected included new version Windows introduced , have added features the Windows platform that make the differences between the Mac and Microsoft\' Windows operating systems less significant. The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result the recent innovations the Windows platform. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition will substantially dependent its ability maintain continuing improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived functional advantages over competing platforms. The Company had previously entered into agreements license its Mac other personal computer vendors (the "Clone Vendors") part effort increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform. The Company recently determined that the benefits licensing the Mac the Clone Vendors under these agreements were more than offset the impact and costs the licensing program. result, the Company agreed acquire certain assets, including the license distribute the Mac , PCC, Clone Vendor, and has plans renew its other Mac licensing agreements. Although the Company believes that this winding down its licensing program will help reduce the adverse impact the licensing program the Company\' sales, market share and gross margins, there can assurance that this will occur. addition, there can assurance that this winding down the licensing program will not result the availability fewer application software titles for the Mac , which may result decrease the Company\' sales, market share and gross margins. supplemental means addressing the competition from Windows and other platforms, the Company had previously devoted substantial resources toward developing personal computer products capable running application software designed for the Windows operating systems. These products include add- card containing Pentium -class microprocessor that enables users run applications concurrently that require the Mac , Windows Windows operating systems. The Company plans transition the cross-platform business third-parties during . There can assurance that this transition will successful. The Company, International Business Machines Corporation and Motorola, Inc. had agreed upon and announced the availability specifications for PowerPC microprocessor-based hardware platform (the "Platform"). These specifications defined "unified" personal computer architecture that would have given the Clone Vendors broad access the Power Macintosh platform and would have utilized standard industry components. The Company had intended license the Mac manufacturers the Platform. However, the Company has decided will longer support the Platform based upon its decision wind down its Mac licensing program, and because little industry support for the Platform. The decision not further develop this Platform may affect the Company\' ability increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including education and publishing. Many these companies have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources than the Company. August , the Company and Microsoft entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. Under these agreements, the companies provided patent cross licenses each other. addition, for period five years from August , Microsoft will make future versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac , and the Company will bundle the Internet Explorer product with Mac system software releases and make that product the default Internet browser for such releases. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series \' \' non-voting convertible preferred stock for $ million. While the Company believes that its relationship with Microsoft will beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Microsoft relationship for limited term and does not cover many the areas which the Company competes with Microsoft, including the Windows platform. addition, the Microsoft relationship may have adverse effect , among other things, the Company\' relationship with other partners. There can assurance that the benefits the Company the Microsoft relationship will not offset the disadvantages. SUPPORT FROM THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS Decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company believes that the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' recent financial losses and declining demand for the Company\' products, well the Company\' decision wind down its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. Moreover, the Company\' current plan introduce new operating system (code named "Rhapsody") could cause software developers stop developing software for the current Mac . addition, there can assurance that software developers will decide develop software for the new operating system timely basis all. Microsoft important developer application software for the Company\' products. Although the Company has entered into relationship with Microsoft, which includes Microsoft\' agreement develop and ship future versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products and certain other Microsoft tools for the Mac , such relationship for limited term and does not cover many areas which the Company competes with Microsoft. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac not covered the relationship upon expiration the relationship may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system. GLOBAL MARKET RISKS large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' consolidated operations and financial results could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold. Countries the Asia Pacific region, including Japan, have recently experienced weaknesses their currency, banking and equity markets. These weaknesses could adversely affect consumer demand for the Company\' product, the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales, the availability and supply product components the Company, and ultimately the Company\' consolidated results operations. When the . dollar strengthens against other currencies, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales decreases. When the . dollar weakens, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales increases. Correspondingly, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based costs increases when the . dollar weakens and decreases when the . dollar strengthens. Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' consolidated sales and gross margins ( expressed . dollars). While the Company exposed with respect fluctuations the interest rates many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. mitigate the impact fluctuations . interest rates, the Company has entered into interest rate swap, collar, and floor transactions. ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap, option and floor positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency- and interest rate-related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities, there can assurance that the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial position. The Company does not engage leveraged hedging. The Company\' current financial condition may increase the costs its hedging transactions, well affect the nature the hedging transactions into which the Company\' counterparties are willing enter. Additional information regarding the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate risk management programs and the accounting thereon, may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. INVENTORY AND SUPPLY The Company makes provision for inventories products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand, accrues for any cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been canceled, and accrues for the estimated costs correct any product quality problems. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are adequate given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer industry, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may again have, material effect the Company\' consolidated financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory well advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk that the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce excess insufficient inventories particular products. The Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Certain the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers, either pursuant design specifications the Company otherwise. part its restructuring actions, the Company sold its Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI and entered into related manufacturing outsourcing agreement with SCI; sold its Singapore printed circuit board manufacturing assets NatSteel Electronics Pte., Ltd., which expected supply main logic boards the Company under manufacturing outsourcing agreement; entered into agreement with Ryder Integrated Logistics, Inc. outsource the Company\' domestic operations transportation and logistics management; and has entered into other similar agreements outsource the Company\' European operations transportation and logistics management. result the foregoing actions, the proportion the Company\' products produced and distributed under outsourcing arrangements will continue increase. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they will also reduce the direct control the Company has over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Furthermore, any efforts the Company manage its inventory under outsourcing arrangements could subject the Company liquidated damages cancellation the arrangement. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company remains least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service. Accordingly, the event product defects warranty liability, the Company may remain primarily liable. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future consolidated operating results and financial condition. Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single sources. the supply key single-sourced component were delayed curtailed, the Company\' business and financial performance could adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. The Company believes that the availability from suppliers the personal computer industry microprocessors and ASICs presents the most significant potential for constraining the Company\' ability manufacture products. Some advanced microprocessors are currently the early stages ramp- for production and thus have limited availability. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for other semiconductor products with other industries that have experienced increased demand for such products, due either increased consumer demand increased use semiconductors their products (such the cellular phone and automotive industries). Finally, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry (including certain microprocessors and ASICs). Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Such product supply constraints and corresponding increased costs could decrease the Company\' net sales and adversely affect the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Motorola, the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, supply Company adequate numbers microprocessors that produce superior price performance results compared with those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, and other developers and producers the microprocessors used most personal computers using the Windows operating systems. The desire IBM and Motorola continue producing these microprocessors may influenced Microsoft\' decision not adapt its Windows operating system software run the PowerPC microprocessor. IBM produces personal computers based Intel microprocessors well workstations based the PowerPC microprocessor, and also the developer , competing operating system the Company\' Mac . Accordingly, IBM\' interest supplying the Company with microprocessors for the Company\' products may influenced IBM\' perception its interests competing manufacturer personal computers and competing operating system vendor. addition, Motorola has recently announced its intention stop producing Mac clones. result, Motorola may less inclined continue produce PowerPC microprocessors. The Company\' current financial condition and uncertainties related recent events could affect the terms which suppliers are willing supply the Company with their products. There can assurance that the Company\' current suppliers will continue supply the Company terms acceptable the Company that the Company will able obtain comparable products from alternate sources such terms. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected the Company unable continue obtain key components terms substantially similar those currently available the Company. Further discussion relating availability and supply components and product may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Raw Materials," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply and Material Product" included under the heading "Concentrations Risk" and under the subheading "Purchase Commitments" included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION number uncertainties may affect the marketing and distribution the Company\' products. Currently, the Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, mass merchants, cataloguers and direct education institutions (collectively referred "resellers"). addition, November the Company began selling many its products directly end users the . through the Company\' -line store. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins. Most such resellers also distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakened resellers within consumer channels were decide not continue distribute the Company\' products. Uncertainty over demand for the Company\' products may continue cause resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. addition, the Company has the past and may the future experience delays ordering resellers light uncertain demand for the Company\' products. Under the Company\' arrangements with its resellers, resellers have the option reduce eliminate unfilled orders previously placed, most instances without financial penalty. Resellers also have the option return products the Company without penalty within certain limits, beyond which they may assessed fees. The Company has recently revised its channel program, including decreasing the number resellers and reducing returns, price protection and certain rebate programs, effort reduce channel inventory, increase inventory turns, increase product support within the channel and improve gross margins. addition, November the Company opened its -line store the . which makes many the Company\' products available directly the end-user. Although the Company believes the foregoing changes will improve its consolidated operating results and financial condition, there can assurance that this will occur. Further discussion relating Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution," which information hereby incorporated reference. CHANGE SENIOR MANAGEMENT July , , the Company announced that . Gilbert . Amelio had resigned his positions Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer and that the Company was initiating search for new Chief Executive Officer. While the Company intends name new Chief Executive Officer soon practicable, there can assurance that the change senior management and related uncertainties will not adversely affect the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition during the period until new Chief Executive Officer hired and afterward. addition, certain members the Company\' senior management have been with the Company for less than six months. There can assurance that new members the management team can successfully assimilated, that the Company will able satisfactorily allocate responsibilities that such new members its management will succeed their roles timely and efficient manner. The Company\' failure recruit, retain and assimilate new executives, the failure any such executive perform effectively, the loss any such executive, could have material adverse impact the Company\' business, financial condition and results operations. CHANGES BOARD DIRECTORS The Company announced August , significant changes its Board Directors, replacing all but two former directors. The continuing directors are Gareth . Chang, Corporate Senior Vice President, Marketing, Hughes Electronics and President, Hughes International, and Edgar . Woolard, ., retired Chairman . DuPont Nemours & Company. The new directors are William . Campbell, President and CEO Intuit Corp.; Lawrence . Ellison, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Oracle Corp.; Steven . Jobs, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios; and Jerome . York, Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation and former Chief Financial Officer IBM and Chrysler Corporation. DEPENDENCE KEY EMPLOYEES During the past several years, the Company has experienced significant voluntary employee turnover result employees\' concerns over the Company\' prospects, well the abundance career opportunities available elsewhere. The Company dependent its key employees order achieve its business plan. There can assurance the Company will able attract, motivate and retain key employees. Failure may have significant effect the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition. OTHER FACTORS The Company the process identifying operating and application software challenges related the year . While the Company expects resolve year compliance issues substantially through normal replacement and upgrades software, there can assurance that there will not interruption operations other limitations system functionality that the Company will not incur substantial costs avoid such limitations. Any failure effectively monitor, implement improve the Company\' operational, financial, management and technical support systems could have material adverse effect the Company\' business and consolidated results operations. The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including certain major vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations which include, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and leave responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. unclear what effect such regulations will have the Company\' future consolidated operating results and financial condition. The Company recently decided replace its existing transaction systems the . (which include order management, product procurement, distribution, and finance) with single integrated system part its ongoing effort increase operational efficiency. Substantially all the transaction systems the European operations were replaced with the same integrated system . The Company\' future consolidated operating results and financial condition could adversely affected the Company unable implement and effectively manage the transition this new integrated system. Because the foregoing factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. addition, the Company\' participation highly dynamic industry often results significant volatility the Company\' common stock price. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company\' consolidated financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, net notes payable banks, decreased $ , million September , , from $ , million September , . The Company\' consolidated financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments decreased $ , million September , , from $ , million September , . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and September , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged collateral support letters credit primarily associated with the Company\' purchase commitments under the terms the sale the Company\' Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI. Cash generated operations during totaled $ million. Cash generated operations was primarily the result decreases accounts receivable and inventories, partially offset the Company\' net loss, adjusted for non-cash expenditures such -process research and development, well decreases accounts payable. Cash used acquire NeXT totaled $ million . The Company expects additional cash expenditures related the NeXT acquisition. Net cash used for the purchase property, plant, and equipment totaled $ million , and consisted primarily increases manufacturing machinery and equipment. The Company expects that the level capital expenditures will comparable . Cash generated financing activities included the sale $ million Apple Series non-voting convertible preferred stock Microsoft Corporation. Cash used financing activities included $ million retire notes payable banks. Over the last two years, the Company\' debt ratings have been downgraded non-investment grade. October , the Company\' senior and subordinated long-term debt were downgraded - and CCC, respectively, Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency. the second quarter , the Company\' debt ratings were downgraded and Caa2, respectively, Moody\' Investor Services. Both Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency and Moody\' Investor Services have the Company negative outlook. These actions may increase the Company\' cost funds future periods. addition, the Company may required pledge additional collateral with respect certain its borrowings and letters credit and agree more stringent covenants than the past. The Company believes that its balances cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, and continued short-term borrowings from banks, will sufficient meet its cash requirements over the next twelve months. Expected cash requirements over the next twelve months include estimated $ million effect actions under the restructuring plan, most which will effected during the first half fiscal . assurance can given that the $ million short-term borrowings from banks can continued, that any additional required financing could obtained should the restructuring plan take longer implement than anticipated unsuccessful. the Company unable obtain such financing, its liquidity, results operations, and financial condition would materially adversely affected. The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the . Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although substantial number the issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- Financial Statements: Report KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent Auditors.................................................... Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors........................................................ Consolidated Balance Sheets September , , and September , ............................. Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , ................ Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , ...... Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , ................ Notes Consolidated Financial Statements............................................................... Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)..................................................... Financial Statement Schedule: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule - Valuation and qualifying accounts........................................................ All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. REPORT KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity and cash flows for the year then ended. connection with our audits the consolidated financial statements, have also audited the accompanying financial statement schedule. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic consolidated financial statements taken whole, presents fairly, all material respects, the information set forth therein. / / KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP ------------------------------------------ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP San Jose, California October , REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Shareholders and Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet Apple Computer, Inc. September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the two years the period ended September , . Our audits also include the financial statement schedule for each the two years the period ended September , listed the Index the Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Computer, Inc. September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the two years the period ended September , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly, all material respects, the information set forth therein. / / ERNST & YOUNG LLP ------------------------------------------ Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (DOLLARS MILLIONS) ASSETS: SEPTEMBER , AND SEPTEMBER , - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------- --------- Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents..................................................................... $ , $ , Short-term investments........................................................................ Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ ($ ).............. , , Inventories: Purchased parts............................................................................. Work process............................................................................. Finished goods.............................................................................. --------- --------- Deferred tax assets........................................................................... Other current assets.......................................................................... --------- --------- Total current assets...................................................................... , , --------- --------- Property, plant, and equipment: Land and buildings............................................................................ Machinery and equipment....................................................................... Office furniture and equipment................................................................ Leasehold improvements........................................................................ --------- --------- , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization..................................................... ( ) ( ) --------- --------- Net property, plant, and equipment........................................................ --------- --------- Other assets.................................................................................... --------- --------- $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- --------- LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Notes payable banks........................................................................ $ $ Accounts payable.............................................................................. Accrued compensation and employee benefits.................................................... Accrued marketing and distribution............................................................ Accrued warranty and related.................................................................. Accrued restructuring costs................................................................... Other current liabilities..................................................................... --------- --------- Total current liabilities................................................................. , , --------- --------- Long-term debt.................................................................................. Deferred tax liabilities........................................................................ Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Series non-voting convertible preferred stock, par value; , shares authorized, issued and outstanding...................................................................... -- Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , shares issued and outstanding ( , , shares )............................................ Retained earnings............................................................................. , Other......................................................................................... ( ) ( ) --------- --------- Total shareholders\' equity................................................................ , , --------- --------- $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- --------- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS (DOLLARS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- --------- Net sales........................................................................ $ , $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- Costs and expenses: Cost sales.................................................................. , , , Research and development....................................................... Selling, general and administrative............................................ , , , Special charges: -process research and development.......................................... -- -- Restructuring costs.......................................................... ( ) Termination license agreement............................................. -- -- --------- --------- --------- , , , --------- --------- --------- Operating income (loss).......................................................... ( , ) ( , ) Interest and other income (expense), net ( ) --------- --------- --------- Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes........................ ( , ) ( , ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes............................................. -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- Net income (loss)................................................................ $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share........................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings (loss) per share ( thousands)....................................................... , , , --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY (DOLLARS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) PREFERRED STOCK COMMON STOCK TOTAL ------------------------- ------------------------- RETAINED SHAREHOLDERS\' SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT EARNINGS OTHER EQUITY ---------------- ------- ---------------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- ( THOUSANDS) ( THOUSANDS) Balance September , .... -- $ -- , $ $ , $( ) $ , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits........................ -- -- , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share........................... -- -- -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment...................... -- -- -- -- -- Change unrealized gains available-for-sale securities... -- -- -- -- -- Net income........................ -- -- -- -- -- Other............................. -- -- -- -- -- --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- Balance September , .... -- -- , , , --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits........................ -- -- , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share........................... -- -- -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Net loss.......................... -- -- -- -- ( ) -- ( ) --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- Balance September , .... -- -- , , ( ) , --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans and other, and connection with the acquisition NeXT......... -- -- , -- -- Series non-voting convertible preferred stock issued.......... -- -- -- -- Accumulated translation adjustment...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Net loss.......................... -- -- -- -- ( , ) -- ( , ) --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- Balance September , .... $ , $ $ $( ) $ , --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS (DOLLARS MILLIONS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------ ------- Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the period................................. $ , $ $ , ------- ------ ------- Operating: Net income (loss).................................................................. ( , ) ( ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) cash generated (used for) operating activities: Depreciation and amortization.................................................... Net book value property, plant, and equipment retirements..................... -process research and development.............................................. -- -- Changes operating assets and liabilities, net effects the acquisition NeXT: Accounts receivable.............................................................. ( ) Inventories...................................................................... , ( ) Deferred tax assets.............................................................. ( ) Other current assets............................................................. ( ) Accounts payable................................................................. ( ) ( ) Accrued restructuring costs...................................................... ( ) Other current liabilities........................................................ ( ) ( ) Deferred tax liabilities......................................................... ( ) ( ) ------- ------ ------- Cash generated (used for) operating activities.............................. ( ) ------- ------ ------- Investing: Purchase short-term investments................................................. ( ) ( ) ( , ) Proceeds from sales and maturities short-term investments....................... , Purchase property, plant, and equipment......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used acquire NeXT.......................................................... ( ) -- -- Other.............................................................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) ------- ------ ------- Cash used for investing activities............................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) ------- ------ ------- Financing: Increase (decrease) notes payable banks...................................... ( ) ( ) Increase (decrease) long-term borrowings........................................ -- ( ) Proceeds from issuance preferred stock.......................................... -- -- Increases common stock, net acquisition NeXT.............................. Cash dividends..................................................................... -- ( ) ( ) ------- ------ ------- Cash generated financing activities......................................... ------- ------ ------- Total cash generated (used)........................................................ ( ) ( ) ------- ------ ------- Cash and cash equivalents, end the period....................................... $ , $ , $ ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ------- Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest........................................... $ $ $ Cash paid (received) for income taxes, net....................................... $ ( ) $ $ Noncash transactions: Tax benefit from stock options................................................. $ -- $ $ Issuance common stock for acquisition NeXT............................... $ $ -- $ -- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NATURE OPERATIONS Apple Computer (the "Company") designs, manufactures, and markets microprocessor-based personal computers and related personal computing products for sale primarily education, creative, home, business, and government customers. BASIS PRESENTATION The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company\' fiscal year-end the last Friday September. ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES GENERAL The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES PROVISIONS FOR INVENTORY WRITE-DOWNS AND RELATED ACCRUALS The Company\' provisions for inventory write-downs, well accruals for the cost cancel excess component orders, are based the Company\' best estimates product sales prices and customer demand patterns, and its plans transition its products. However, the Company participates highly competitive industry that characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressures gross margins, frequent introductions new products, short product life cycles, rapid technological advances, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, and price sensitivity and changing demand patterns the part consumers. result the industry\' ever-changing and dynamic nature, least reasonably possible that the estimates used the Company determine its provisions for inventory write-downs, well its accruals for the cost cancel excess component orders, will materially different from the actual amounts results. These differences could result materially higher than expected inventory provisions and related costs, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\' consolidated results operations and financial condition the near term. WARRANTY AND RELATED ACCRUALS The Company\' warranty and related accruals are based the Company\' best estimates product failure rates and unit costs repair. However, the Company continually releasing new and ever-more complex and technologically advanced products. result, least reasonably possible that product could released with certain unknown quality and design problems. Such occurrence could result materially higher than expected warranty and related costs, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\' consolidated results operations and financial condition the near term. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Realization approximately $ million the total deferred tax assets representing tax loss and credit carryforwards dependent the Company\' ability generate approximately $ million future . taxable income. Management believes that more likely than not that forecasted . taxable income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient utilize the tax carryforwards prior their expiration and fully recover the asset. However, there can assurance that the Company will meet its expectations future . income. result, the amount the deferred tax assets considered realizable could reduced the near and long term estimates future taxable . income are reduced. Such occurrence could materially adversely affect the Company\' consolidated results operations and financial condition. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount valuation allowance. SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS INVESTMENTS All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. September , there are investments with maturities greater than twelve months. The Company\' . corporate securities include commercial paper and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participation and certificates deposit with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments are generally held until maturity. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses reported component shareholders\' equity. These unrealized gains losses include any unrealized losses and gains interest rate contracts accounted for hedges against the available-for-sale securities. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE-SHEET RISK the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. The Company does not hold transact financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES The Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. addition, the Company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts hedge certain intercompany loan transactions. These forward contracts effectively change certain foreign currency denominated debt into . dollar denominated debt, which better matches against the Company\' . dollar denominated cash equivalents and short-term investments. such contracts existed September , . FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, and certain firmly committed and probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company\' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal . dollar value terms their historically high correlation with the . dollar. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products currencies other than the . dollar. majority these non- . dollar-based sales are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge the currency exchange risks associated with these and other transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase these foreign exchange option contracts. addition, the Company enters into other foreign exchange transactions, which are intended reduce the costs associated with its foreign exchange risk management programs. The duration foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions for probable but not firmly committed transactions, currently does not exceed one year. Interest rate and foreign exchange instruments generally qualify accounting hedges their maturity dates are the same the hedged transactions and the hedged transactions meet certain requirements. Sold interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not qualify accounting hedges. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are generally recorded currently income shareholders\' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange contracts that not qualify accounting hedges are recorded currently income. Gains and losses accounting hedges realized before the settlement date the related hedged transaction are also generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, including and when the hedged transactions longer exists, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Further information regarding the Company\' accounting treatment its financial instruments may found under the heading "Interest Rate Derivatives and Foreign Currency Instruments" included these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant, and equipment stated cost. Depreciation and amortization computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings and from two ten years for all other assets. LONG-LIVED ASSETS accordance with the provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , "Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed " ("FAS "), the Company reviews for the impairment long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Under FAS , impairment loss would recognized when estimated future cash flows expected result from the use the asset and its eventual disposition less than its carrying amount. The only such impairment losses identified the Company September , and September , were those recorded connection with the restructuring its operations. Information regarding the Company\' restructuring operations may found under the heading "Restructuring Operations" included these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION accordance with the provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("FAS "), which the Company adopted , the Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion . , "Accounting for Stock Issued Employees" ("APB ") and related interpretations accounting for its employee stock option plans. Under APB , the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals exceeds the fair value the underlying stock the date grant, compensation expense recognized. Information regarding the Company\' pro forma disclosure stock-based compensation pursuant FAS may found under the heading "Shareholders\' Equity" these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The Company translates the assets and liabilities its foreign sales subsidiaries year-end exchange rates. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged "accumulated translation adjustment" included "other" shareholders\' equity. The foreign manufacturing, distribution and certain other entities use the . dollar the functional currency and translate monetary assets and liabilities year-end exchange rates, and inventories, property, and non-monetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations are included the consolidated results operations and are immaterial. REVENUE RECOGNITION The Company recognizes revenue the time products are shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns and price protection that may occur under Company programs. Historically, actual amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied significantly from estimated amounts. WARRANTY EXPENSE The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. ADVERTISING COSTS Advertising costs are charged expense the first time the advertising takes place. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE Earnings (loss) per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding and ( only) the dilutive effect common stock options using the treasury stock method. Common stock options, the convertible subordinated notes, the preferred stock, and certain common shares issued pending shareholder approval were not included the computations loss per share and their effect was antidilutive. February , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , "Earnings Per Share" ("FAS "). Under the provisions FAS , primary earnings per share will replaced with basic earnings per share, and fully diluted earnings per share will replaced with diluted earnings per share for companies with potentially dilutive securities such outstanding options, convertible debt and preferred stock. FAS effective for annual and interim periods ending after December , and will require restatement all comparative per share amounts. The basic loss per share will different than the primary loss per share presented the accompanying consolidated statements operations neither consider outstanding options, convertible debt preferred stock. and when the Company becomes profitable, will required present both basic and diluted earnings per share. Basic earnings per share, which does not consider potentially dilutive securities, will greater than the replaced primary earnings per share which did consider those securities. Diluted earnings per share will not differ materially from the replaced fully diluted earnings per share. RECLASSIFICATIONS Certain prior year amounts the Industry Segment and Geographic Information footnote have been reclassified conform the current year\' presentation. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities amortized cost, which approximates fair value, September , and September , : AMORTIZED COST AMORTIZED COST --------------- --------------- ( MILLIONS) . Treasury securities............................................... $ $ . corporate securities.............................................. Foreign securities..................................................... , ------ ------ Total included cash and cash equivalents.......................... , , . corporate securities.............................................. -- Foreign securities..................................................... ------ ------ Total included short-term investments............................. ------ ------ Total................................................................ $ , $ , ------ ------ ------ ------ Gross unrealized gains and losses were negligible September , and September , . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and September , , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged primarily collateral support letters credit. INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES AND FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS The table below shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , , and September , . The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table below represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table below reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and sforeign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. --------------------------------------- ------------------------ NOTIONAL CREDIT RISK NOTIONAL PRINCIPAL FAIR VALUE AMOUNT PRINCIPAL FAIR VALUE ----------- ----- ------------- ----------- ----- ( MILLIONS) Transactions Qualifying Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps.......................................... $ $ ( ) $ -- $ $ ( ) Interest rate collars.......................... $ $ -- $ -- $ $ -- Purchased floors............................... $ $ ( ) $ -- $ $ Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts......................... $ $ $ $ , $ Purchased options.............................. $ $ $ $ , $ Transactions Other Than Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps.......................................... $ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts......................... $ $ -- $ $ $ -- Purchased options.............................. $ , $ $ $ $ Sold options................................... $ $ ( ) $ -- $ $ ( ) CREDIT RISK AMOUNT ------------- Transactions Qualifying Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps.......................................... $ -- Interest rate collars.......................... $ -- Purchased floors............................... $ Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts......................... $ Purchased options.............................. $ Transactions Other Than Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps.......................................... $ -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts......................... $ -- Purchased options.............................. $ Sold options................................... $ -- The interest rate swaps which qualify accounting hedges generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. result, these swaps effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate ten-year debt floating-rate debt and generally qualify for hedge accounting treatment. The maturity date for these swaps February . September , , and September , , interest rate swaps classified receive-fixed swaps had weighted average receive rate %. Weighted average pay rates these swaps were % and % September , , and September , , respectively. The unrealized gains and losses these swaps are deferred and recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The $ million interest rate swap not qualifying accounting hedge requires the Company pay Japanese yen fixed % interest rate and receive Japanese yen floating rate based month LIBOR. This swap was intended hedge against the interest rate risk related the Company\' yen- denominated notes payable banks. most the notes payable banks were not renewed, the swap longer effective hedge and therefore longer qualifies accounting hedge. Interest rate collars limit the Company\' exposure fluctuations short-term interest rates locking range interest rates. interest rate collar -cost structure that consists purchased option and sold option. The Company receives payment when the three-month LIBOR falls below predetermined levels, and makes payment when the three-month LIBOR rises above predetermined levels. Purchased floors limit the Company\' exposure falling interest rates its cash equivalents and short-term investments locking minimum interest rate. The Company receives payment when interest rates fall below predetermined level. purchased floor generally qualifies for hedge accounting treatment and reported the balance sheet its premium cost, which amortized over the life the floor. The interest rate collars and purchased floors are generally designated and effective hedges against interest rate risk the Company\' securities classified available-for-sale and are carried fair value other current liabilities with the unrealized gains and losses recorded component shareholders\' equity. Gains and losses are recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , , and September , . Sold interest rate option contracts require the Company make payments should certain interest rates either fall below rise above predetermined levels. These contracts are generally not accounted for hedges and are carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are also carried fair value other current liabilities with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. All foreign exchange forward contracts expire within one year. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts that are designated and effective hedges are recorded other current assets and amortized over the life the option. the option contract designated and effective hedge firmly committed transaction, probable but not firmly committed transaction, then any gain loss deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , , and September , . the option contract used hedge asset liability, then the option carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transaction. September , , maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts ranged from one twelve months. The net premium costs purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts not accounted for hedges are recorded other current assets and amortized over the life the option. The options are carried fair value other current liabilities with gains and losses recorded currently income. September , , maturity dates for sold option contracts ranged from one six months. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. NOTES PAYABLE BANKS The weighted average interest rate for Japanese yen-denominated notes payable banks September , , and September , , was approximately %. The Company had . dollar-denominated notes payable banks September , September , . The carrying amount notes payable banks approximates their fair value due their less than -day maturities. LONG-TERM DEBT During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the "Notes") certain qualified parties private placement. The Notes were sold % par. The Notes pay interest semi-annually and mature June , . The Notes are convertible their holders any time after September , conversion price $ per share subject adjustments defined the Note agreement. Notes had been converted September , . The Notes are redeemable the Company % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve-month period beginning June , , and % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve-month period beginning June , . The Notes are subordinated all present and future senior indebtedness the Company defined the Note agreement. addition, the Company incurred approximately $ million costs associated with the issuance the Notes. These costs are accounted for deduction from the face amount the Notes and are being amortized over the life the Notes. October , the Company registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") $ million the aggregate principal amount the Notes, including the related common shares issuable upon conversion these Notes. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . The carrying amounts and estimated fair values the Company\' long-term debt are follows: ---------------------- ---------------------- CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE ----------- --------- ----------- --------- ( MILLIONS) Ten-year unsecured notes........................................... $ $ $ $ Convertible subordinated notes ( )................................. $ $ $ $ Other.............................................................. $ $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) The carrying amount the convertible subordinated notes prior consideration the related issuance costs. The fair value the ten-year unsecured notes based their listed market values September , and September , . The fair value the convertible subordinated notes based estimate from financial institution. INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Interest and other income (expense), net, consisted the following: --------- --------- --------- ( MILLIONS) Interest income.................................................................. $ $ $ Interest expense................................................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss)..................................................... ( ) Net premiums and discounts foreign exchange instruments....................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Realized gains the sale available-for-sale and other securities............ Other income (expense), net...................................................... ( ) ( ) --- --- --- $ $ $ ( ) --- --- --- --- --- --- CONCENTRATIONS RISK CONCENTRATIONS CREDIT RISK The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and various education and consumer channels. Concentrations credit risk with respect trade receivables are limited because flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and because the Company\' customer base consists large numbers geographically diverse customers dispersed across several industries. such, the Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe that there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the number agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' ten-year unsecured notes. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions which mature , the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. These agreements require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds are exceeded. The amounts held margin accounts were not material September , . CONCENTRATIONS THE AVAILABLE SOURCES SUPPLY MATERIALS AND PRODUCT Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, "ASICs") are currently obtained the Company from single sources. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed, the Company\' ability ship the related product utilizing such component desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portion the Company\' CPUs and logic boards are now manufactured outsourcing partners. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules and levels, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS customer accounted for more than % the Company\' net sales , , . ADVERTISING COSTS Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. SPECIAL CHARGES NEXT ACQUISITION February , , the Company acquired all the outstanding shares NeXT Software, Inc. ("NeXT"). NeXT, headquartered Redwood City, California, had developed, marketed and supported software that enables customers implement business applications the Internet World Wide Web, intranets and enterprise-wide client server networks. The total purchase price was $ million and was comprised cash payments $ million and the issuance million shares the Company\' common stock the NeXT shareholders valued approximately $ million according the terms the purchase agreement; the issuance approximately million options purchase the Company\' common stock the NeXT optionholders valued approximately $ million; cash payments $ million the NeXT debtholders; cash payments $ million for closing and related costs, and $ million net liabilities assumed. The acquisition was accounted for purchase and, accordingly, the operating results pertaining NeXT subsequent the date acquisition have been included the Company\' consolidated operating results. The total purchase price was allocated purchased -process research and development ($ million) and goodwill and other intangible assets ($ million). The purchased -process research and development was charged operations upon acquisition, and the goodwill and other intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over years. The following unaudited proforma summary combines the consolidated results operations the Company and NeXT the acquisition had occurred the beginning the years ended September , and September , , after giving effect certain adjustments, including -process research and development, amortization intangible assets, lower interest income result lower cash investment balances, and lower interest expense result the settlement the NeXT debt, well related income tax effects only. The proforma summary does not necessarily reflect the results operations they would have been had the Company and NeXT been combined the beginning those years. PROFORMA RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED -------------------------------------- SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------ ------------------ ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales....................................................... $ , $ , ------- ------- ------- ------- Net loss........................................................ $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ------- ------- ------- ------- Loss per common share........................................... $ ( ) $ ( ) ------- ------- ------- ------- RESTRUCTURING OPERATIONS the second quarter , the Company announced and began implement restructuring plan aimed reducing costs and restoring profitability the Company\' operations. The restructuring plan was necessitated decreased demand for the Company\' products and the Company\' adoption new strategic direction. These actions resulted net charge $ million after subsequent adjustments recorded the fourth quarter . During , the Company announced and began implement supplemental restructuring actions meet the foregoing objectives the plan. The Company recognized $ million charge during for the estimated incremental costs those actions, including approximately $ million costs related the termination the Company\' former Chief Executive Officer. The combined restructuring actions consist terminating approximately , full-time employees, approximately , whom have been terminated from the second quarter through September , , excluding employees who were not paid severance bonuses and who were hired SCI Systems, Inc. MCI Systemhouse, the purchasers the Company\' Fountain, Colorado manufacturing facility and the Napa, California data center facility, respectively; canceling vacating certain facility leases result those employee terminations; writing down certain land, buildings and equipment sold result downsizing operations and outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling contracts for projects and technologies that are not central the Company\' core business strategy. The restructuring actions under the plan have resulted cash expenditures $ million and noncash asset write-downs $ million from the second quarter through September , . The Company expects that the remaining $ million accrued balance September , will result cash expenditures approximately $ million over the next twelve months and $ million thereafter. The Company expects that most the contemplated restructuring actions related the plan will completed during the first half fiscal and will financed through current working capital and, necessary, continued short-term borrowings. The following table depicts the restructuring activity through September , : RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITY NET BALANCE NET BALANCE ADDITIONS SPENDING SEPTEMBER , ADDITIONS SPENDING SEPTEMBER , CATEGORY DURING DURING DURING DURING - --------------------------------------- ----------- ------------- --------------- ----------- ----------- --------------- ( MILLIONS) Payments employees involuntarily terminated ( )....................... $ $ $ $ $ $ Payments canceled vacated facility leases ( ).................. Write-down operating assets sold ( )............................. Payments canceled contracts ( )..... ----- --- ----- ----- ----- ----- $ $ $ $ $ $ ----- --- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- --- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ------------------------ ( ): Cash; ( ): Noncash. TERMINATION LICENSE AGREEMENT August , the Company agreed acquire certain assets Power Computing Corporation (PCC), company which Apple had licensed distribute Macintosh operating systems. addition the acquisition certain assets such PCC\' customer database and the license distribute Macintosh operating systems, the Company also has the right retain certain key employees PCC. The agreement with PCC also includes release claims between the parties. The Company anticipates will complete its acquisition the assets PCC the first quarter once all regulatory approvals are received. The total purchase price, which comprised shares the Company\' common stock valued $ million; the Company\' forgiveness receivables from PCC; the assumption certain PCC obligations; and closing and related costs, expected approximately $ million. The total purchase price expected require total cash expenditures approximately $ million over the next months. The acquisition will treated purchase for accounting purposes. The difference between the total purchase price and the amount expensed "Termination License Agreement" the accompanying consolidated statement operations will capitalized the first quarter , and then amortized over period two years. INCOME TAXES The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists the following: --------- --------- --------- ( MILLIONS) Federal: Current............................................................. $ -- $ ( ) $ Deferred............................................................ -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- State: Current............................................................. -- ( ) Deferred............................................................ -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- Foreign: Current............................................................. -- ( ) Deferred............................................................ -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- Provision (benefit) for income taxes.................................. $ -- $ ( ) $ --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- The foreign provision (benefit) for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings (loss) approximately $( ) million, $( ) million, and $ million , , and , respectively. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Except for such indefinitely reinvested earnings, the Company provides for federal and state income taxes currently undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were: SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , --------------- --------------- ( MILLIONS) Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves.................... $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves........................ Basis capital assets and investments....................... Tax losses and credits........................................ ----- ----- Total deferred tax assets..................................... Less: Valuation allowance....................................... ----- ----- Net deferred tax assets......................................... ----- ----- Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries........................... Other......................................................... ----- ----- Total deferred tax liabilities.................................. ----- ----- Net deferred tax asset.......................................... $ $ ----- ----- ----- ----- The increase net deferred tax assets $ million primarily the result reclassifying certain benefits tax losses and credits from other current assets deferred tax assets the consolidated balance sheet. September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire principally and . Most the remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. The net change the total valuation allowance was increase $ million, which net $ million adjustment related the acquisition NeXT. reconciliation the provision (benefit) for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes, follows: --------- --------- --------- ( MILLIONS) Computed expected tax (benefit)............................................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ State taxes, net federal effect............................................ ( ) ( ) Research and development tax credit........................................... -- -- ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries........................ -- -- ( ) Purchase accounting and asset acquisitions.................................... -- -- Valuation allowance........................................................... -- Other individually immaterial items........................................... --------- --------- --------- Provision (benefit) for income taxes.......................................... $ -- $ ( ) $ --------- --------- --------- Effective tax rate............................................................ % % % --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the United States Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although substantial number issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY PREFERRED STOCK August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series \' \' non-voting convertible preferred stock ("preferred stock") for $ million. Except under limited circumstances, the shares preferred stock may not sold Microsoft prior August , . Upon any sale the preferred stock Microsoft, the shares will automatically converted into shares Apple common stock conversion price $ per share and the shares can converted Microsoft\' option such price after August , . Each share preferred stock entitled receive, and when declared the Company\' Board Directors, dividend $ per share per annum, payable preference any dividend the Company\' common stock, plus, the dividends per share paid the common stock are greater than the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, then the Board Directors shall declare additional dividend such that the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, shall equal the dividends per share paid the common stock. STOCK OPTION PLANS STOCK OPTION PLAN The Company has effect Stock Option Plan (the " Plan"), which replaced the Stock Option Plan terminated October and the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan (the " Plan") terminated July . Options granted before these plans\' termination dates remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan employees, including officers and directors who are employees, not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period three years, based continued employment, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. November , the Company\' Board Directors passed resolution requiring all future option grants vested over period four years. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and stock appreciation rights. July , the Board Directors adopted resolution allowing employees exchange all (but not less than all) their existing options (vested and unvested) purchase Apple common stock (other than options granted and assumed from NeXT) for options having exercise price $ and new three year vesting period beginning July . Approximately million options were repriced under this program. May , , the Board Directors adopted resolution allowing employees and including the level Vice President exchange options their existing option price for new options having exercise price $ per share, the fair market value the Company\' common stock May , . Options received under this program are subject one year additional vesting such that the new vesting date for each vesting portion will the later May , the original vesting date plus one year. Approximately million options were exchanged and repriced under this program. December , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million. The amendment was approved the Company\' shareholders February . EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan ("the Plan"), for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Terms and conditions the Plan are substantially the same the Plan. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period three years, based continued employment, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. November , the Company\' Board Directors passed resolution requiring all future option grants vested over period four years. The Company\' Board Directors has reserved million shares for issuance under the provisions the Plan. STOCK OPTION PLAN NEXT February , , the Company acquired all the outstanding shares NeXT. Under the terms the acquisition agreement, approximately million options purchase the Company\' common stock were issued the existing NeXT optionholders. The options have the same terms and conditions the options issued NeXT. The NeXT options were granted under the NeXT Plan employees, including officers and directors who were employees, not less than the fair market value the date grant. The options become exercisable over various periods, previously determined the Board Directors NeXT the time issuance. DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved Director Stock Plan ("DSOP") for which directors the Company are eligible. Options granted under the DSOP vest three equal installments, each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. The Company\' Board Directors has reserved , shares for issuance under the provisions the DSOP. September , , , options had been granted and were outstanding under the DSOP, subject shareholder approval the Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . Supplementally and separate from the DSOP (the "Prior Plan"), , options had been granted total two members the Company\' Board Directors, and were outstanding September , . These options are also subject shareholder approval the Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . The options granted and available for future grant under the DSOP and Prior Plan are not included outstanding available for future grant the tables and narrative below they are subject shareholder approval. STOCK OPTION ACCOUNTING The Company has elected follow APB and related interpretations accounting for its employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under FAS requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. Pro forma information regarding net loss and loss per share required FAS and has been determined the Company had accounted for its employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases subsequent September , , under the fair value method that Statement. The fair values for these options and stock purchases were estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model for the single option approach with the following weighted-average assumptions for and : risk-free interest rate % and % for the options and stock purchases, respectively; average volatility factor the expected market price the Company\' common stock % and % for the options and stock purchases, respectively; and weighted-average expected lives three years from the grant date and six months from the beginning the plan period for the options and stock purchases, respectively. dividend payments are expected. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value traded options which have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, management\' opinion, the existing models not necessarily provide reliable single measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares are amortized pro forma net loss over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Company\' pro forma information follows: FOR THE YEARS ENDED --------------------------------------- SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------ ------------------- ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT LOSS PER SHARE INFORMATION) Net loss........................................................ $ ( , ) $ ( ) ------- ------ ------- ------ Loss per common share........................................... $ ( ) $ ( ) ------- ------ ------- ------ The value the options granted NeXT optionholders have been included the total purchase price paid for NeXT and, therefore, are not included the adjustment arrive the pro forma net loss. FAS applicable only options granted shares issued subsequent September , , its pro forma effect will not fully reflected until . summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , and September , follows: YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------------------ ------------------------------ OPTIONS WEIGHTED-AVERAGE OPTIONS WEIGHTED-AVERAGE ( \' ) EXERCISE PRICE ( \' ) EXERCISE PRICE ----------- ----------------- ----------- ----------------- Outstanding--beginning period....................... , $ , $ Granted (Price equals fair market value, the "FMV")............................................. , $ , $ Granted (Price less than FMV)........................ , $ -- $ -- Exercised............................................ ( , ) $ ( ) $ Forfeited............................................ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ----------- ------ ----------- ------ Outstanding--end period............................. , $ , $ ----------- ------ ----------- ------ ----------- ------ ----------- ------ Exercisable end period........................... , , ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- Weighted-average fair value per share options granted during the period............................ $ $ ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- The options granted price less than fair market value were existing NeXT optionholders part the total purchase price paid for NeXT. The weighted-average fair value per share options granted during the period includes the value the repriced options granted during the period less the value the related forfeited options the date the repriced options were granted. The options outstanding September , have been segregated into six ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are recorded thousands): OPTIONS OUTSTANDING ------------------------------------------- OPTIONS EXERCISABLE OPTIONS WEIGHTED ---------------------------- OUTSTANDING AVERAGE WEIGHTED OPTIONS WEIGHTED REMAINING AVERAGE EXERCISABLE AVERAGE SEPTEMBER , CONTRACTUAL EXERCISE SEPTEMBER EXERCISE LIFE YEARS PRICE , PRICE ------------- --------------- ----------- --------------- ----------- $ - $ ................................... $ $ $ - $ .................................. , $ $ $ - $ ................................. $ -- $ -- $ - $ ................................. , $ -- $ -- $ - $ ................................. , $ $ $ - $ ................................. $ $ ------ ----- $ - $ .................................. , $ , $ ------ ----- ------ ----- September , , approximately million options were reserved for future grant under the Company\' stock option plans. EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the "Purchase Plan") under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end the six-month offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. December , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Purchase Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million, which was approved the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders February . September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. SENIOR OFFICERS RESTRICTED PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN November , the Company\' Board Directors issued approximately , fully vested shares and cash settlement shares certain officers the Company under the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan (the "PSP") based upon the achievement certain performance goals established advance the Compensation Committee the Board. Immediately after these shares were issued, the Company\' Board Directors terminated the PSP. shares had been previously issued under the PSP. Supplementally and separate from the PSP, during the year ended September , the Company\' Board Directors issued approximately , fully vested shares the Company\' former Chief Executive Officer based upon the achievement certain performance goals established advance the Compensation Committee the Board. SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN May , the Company adopted shareholder rights plan and distributed dividend one right purchase one share common stock ( "Right") for each outstanding share common stock the Company. The Rights become exercisable certain limited circumstances involving potential business combination transaction the Company and are initially exercisable price $ per share. Following certain other events after the Rights have become exercisable, each Right entitles its holder purchase for $ amount common stock the Company, , certain circumstances, securities the acquiror, having then-current market value two times the exercise price the Right. The Rights are redeemable and may amended the Company\' option before they become exercisable. Until Right exercised, the holder Right, such, has rights shareholder the Company. The Rights expire April , . STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAMS November , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. Approximately million shares remain authorized for repurchase. shares were repurchased under this authorization , , . EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN The Company has employee savings plan (the "Savings Plan") that qualifies deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pretax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). Effective October , , the Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. Prior October , , the Company matched % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES LEASE COMMITMENTS The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms five ten years and generally provide renewal options for terms five additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows: ( MILLIONS) --------------- ............................................................................ $ ............................................................................ ............................................................................ ............................................................................ ............................................................................ Later years..................................................................... ----- Total minimum lease payments.................................................... $ ----- ----- PURCHASE COMMITMENTS connection with the sale its Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI"), the Company obligated purchase certain percentages its total annual volumes CPUs and logic boards from SCI over each the next two years. The Company has met these obligations through September , , and believes will meet them the future. addition, the ordinary course business, the Company has entered into agreements with vendors which obligate purchase product components which may not common the rest the personal computer industry. For discussion regarding the accruals included the consolidated balance sheets for the cost cancel excess purchase orders, refer the subheading "Significant Accounting Estimates", under the heading "Accounting Estimates" these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. LITIGATION ABRAHAM AND EVELYN KOSTICK TRUST . PETER CRISP . January , purported shareholder class action styled Abraham and Evelyn Kostick Trust . Peter Crisp . was filed the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming the Company and its then directors defendants. The complaint sought injunctive relief and damages and alleged that acts mismanagement resulted depressed price for the Company. February , the complaint was amended add former director defendant and add purported class and derivative claims based theories such breach fiduciary duty, misrepresentation, and insider trading. July , the Court sustained defendants\' demurrer and dismissed the amended complaint variety grounds and granted plaintiffs leave amend the complaint. October , the plaintiffs filed second amended complaint naming the Company\' then directors and certain former directors defendants and again alleging purported class and derivative claims, seeking injunctive relief and damages (compensatory and punitive) based theories such breach fiduciary duty, misrepresentation, and insider trading. July , the Court granted part and denied part the Company\' motion strike most the substantive allegations the second amended complaint. The Court sustained the demurrer plaintiffs\' class claims but overruled the demurrer the shareholder derivative claims. September , the Company brought motion reconsider portions the court\' order. The Third Amended Complaint was filed October , and eliminated the class action claims and restated claims against certain directors and former directors. November , the Company\' Board Directors appointed special investigation committee and engaged independent counsel assist the investigation the claims made the Third Amended Complaint. Also November , the Company filed demurrer the Third Amended Complaint. DEREK PRITCHARD . MICHAEL SPINDLER . March , purported shareholder class action was filed the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming certain current and former directors the Company defendants. The complaint sought damages and alleged that the defendants breached their fiduciary duty allegedly rejecting offer from computer company (not named the complaint) acquire the Company price excess $ per share. August , the Court sustained defendants\' demurrer and dismissed the complaint variety grounds, and granted plaintiff leave amend the complaint. October , the plaintiff filed his first amended complaint which asserted the same purported cause action the original complaint, alleged additional facts purportedly support thereof, and added the Company defendant. March , the Court sustained defendants\' demurrer without leave amend. MEN\' CLOTHING DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION FUND . MICHAEL SPINDLER . May , action was filed the California Superior Court for Alameda County naming defendants the Company and certain its current and former officers and directors. The complaint seeks compensatory and punitive damages and generally alleges that the defendants misrepresented omitted material facts about the Company\' operations and financial results, which plaintiff contends artificially inflated the price the Company\' stock. The case was transferred the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County. July , the Court sustained the Company\' demurrer dismissing the amended complaint with leave amend, after which plaintiff served second amended complaint. September , the Company and the two remaining individual defendants (former directors Markkula and Spindler) brought motion dismiss the second amended complaint. October , the Court granted the motion dismiss its entirety with leave amend certain defendants and claims. November , the plaintiff filed third amended complaint, adding former director defendant and alleging further misrepresentations the defendants about the Company\' operations and financial results. "REPETITIVE STRESS INJURY" LITIGATION The Company named approximately lawsuits, alleging that plaintiffs incurred -called "repetitive stress" injuries their upper extremities result using keyboards and mouse input devices sold the Company. These actions are similar those filed against other major suppliers personal computers. October , the Company prevailed the first full trial verdict against the Company. Since then, approximately ten lawsuits have been dismissed with prejudice the plaintiffs, and two others have been dismissed court order. The remaining actions are various stages pretrial activity. Ultimate resolution these cases may depend industry-wide progress resolving similar litigation, well resolution major questions law currently before the state appellate court New York, where majority the cases were filed. MONITOR-SIZE LITIGATION August , the Company was named, along with other entities, including computer manufacturers and computer monitor vendors, putative nationwide class action filed the California Superior Court for Orange County, styled Keith Long . . AAmazing Technologies Corp. . The complaint alleges that each the defendants engaged false misleading advertising with respect the size computer monitor screens. Also August , the Company was named the sole defendant purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Camden County, entitled Mahendri Shah . Apple Computer, Inc. Subsequently, November , the Company, along with other entities, was named purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Essex County, entitled Maizes & Maizes . Apple Computer, Inc. . Similar putative class actions have been filed other California counties which the Company was not named defendant. The complaints all these cases seek restitution the form refunds product exchange, damages, punitive damages, and attorneys fees. December , the California Judicial Council ordered all the California actions, including Long, coordinated for purposes pretrial proceedings and trial before single judge, the Honorable William Cahill, sitting the County San Francisco. All the California actions were subsequently coordinated under the name Computer Monitor Litigation and master consolidated complaint filed superseding all the individual complaints those actions. July , Judge Cahill ordered all the California cases dismissed without leave amend plaintiffs residing California the ground that stipulated judgment entered September prior action brought the California Attorney General alleging the same cause action was res judicata the plaintiffs the consolidated California class action suits. This order may subject appellate review later stage the proceedings. Both the New Jersey cases and the consolidated California cases are preliminary stage, with discovery having taken place. March , the Court the case styled Computer Monitor Litigation preliminarily approved proposed settlement which the Company and all but three the other defendants the action would parties and provisionally certified nationwide settlement class with respect thereto. hearing regarding final approval the proposed settlement was held June , and the Court\' decision pending. approved, the Company does not anticipate its obligations pursuant the proposed settlement will have material adverse effect its consolidated results operations financial condition reported the accompanying financial statements. EXPONENTIAL TECHNOLOGY . APPLE Plaintiff alleges lawsuit styled Exponential Technology, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. that the Company, which was investor Exponential, breached its fiduciary duty Exponential Technology misusing confidential information about its financial situation cause Exponential fail, and that the Company fraudulently misrepresented the facts about allowing Exponential sell its processors the Company\' Mac licensees. The lawsuit filed California State Court Santa Clara County. November , the Company filed demurrer portions the complaint. OTHER August , , the Federal Trade Commission issued consent decree against the Company, regarding the Company\' past processor upgrade practices, specifically certain advertisements which the Commission deemed have misrepresented the Company\' marketing certain microprocessor upgrade products. Pursuant the order, the Company ordered cease and desist from any such allegedly misleading advertising, give notice consumers, and implement certain programs enabling consumers who are within the order\' scope obtain upgrade kits rebates, connection with any purchases within the scope the order. The Company has complied with all provisions the order currently effective, and has filed its -day compliance with the Commission October , . The Company has various other claims, lawsuits, disputes with third parties, investigations and pending actions involving allegations false misleading advertising, product defects, discrimination, infringement intellectual property rights, and breach contract and other matters against the Company and its subsidiaries incident the operation its business. The liability, any, associated with these matters not determinable. The Company believes the resolution the matters cited above will not have material adverse effect its financial condition reported the accompanying financial statements. However, depending the amount and timing any unfavorable resolution these lawsuits, possible that the Company\' future results operations cash flows could materially affected particular period. The Company operates one principal industry segment: the design, manufacture, and sale personal computing products. The Company\' products are sold primarily the business, education, home, and government markets. INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION Geographic financial information follows: --------- --------- --------- ( MILLIONS) Net sales unaffiliated customers: United States......................................................... $ , $ , $ , EMEA.................................................................. , , , Japan................................................................. , , , Asia Pacific.......................................................... Other................................................................. --------- --------- --------- Total net sales..................................................... $ , $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- Transfers between geographic areas (eliminated consolidation): United States......................................................... $ $ $ EMEA.................................................................. Japan................................................................. -- -- Asia Pacific.......................................................... , , , Other................................................................. -- -- -- --------- --------- --------- Total transfers..................................................... $ , $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- Operating income (loss): United States......................................................... $ ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( ) EMEA.................................................................. ( ) ( ) Japan................................................................. ( ) ( ) Asia Pacific.......................................................... Other................................................................. ( ) -- Eliminations.......................................................... ( ) Corporate income (expense), net......................................... ( ) --------- --------- --------- Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes........... $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- Identifiable assets: United States......................................................... $ , $ , $ , EMEA.................................................................. Japan................................................................. Asia Pacific.......................................................... Other................................................................. Eliminations.......................................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate assets...................................................... , , --------- --------- --------- Total assets........................................................ $ , $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- "EMEA" abbreviation for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. "Asia Pacific" does not include Japan. "Other" comprised all North and South America sites excluding the United States. Prior year amounts have been restated conform the current year\' presentation. "Net sales unaffiliated customers" based the location the customers. Transfers between geographic areas are recorded amounts generally above cost and accordance with the rules and regulations the respective governing tax authorities. Operating income (loss) geographic area consists total net sales less operating expenses, and does not include allocation general corporate expenses. The restructuring charges recorded and , and the adjustments recorded the restructuring charges recorded , are included the calculation operating income (loss) for each geographic area. Identifiable assets geographic areas are those assets used the Company\' operations each area. Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and equity securities. large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations, and majority the products sold internationally are manufactured the Company\' facilities Cork, Ireland and Singapore. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) FOURTH QUARTER THIRD QUARTER SECOND QUARTER FIRST QUARTER --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- (TABULAR AMOUNTS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin................................ $ $ $ $ Net loss.................................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Loss per common share....................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Price range per common share................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Net sales................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin................................ $ $ $ ( ) $ Net income (loss)........................... $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share.......................... $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cash dividends declared per common share.... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ Price range per common share................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ September , , there were , shareholders record. The Company began declaring quarterly cash dividends its common stock April . The dividend policy determined the Board Directors and dependent the Company\' earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. The Company suspended paying dividends its common stock beginning the second quarter . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per common share represents the highest and lowest prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. Net loss for the fourth quarter includes $ million charge increase the Company\' restructuring reserves, well $ million charge related the termination the license agreement with PCC. Net loss for the second quarter includes $ million restructuring charge, well $ million write-off purchased -process research and development related the Company\' acquisition NeXT Software, Inc. Net income for the fourth quarter includes adjustment the restructuring charge that increased income $ million. Net loss for the second quarter includes $ million charge for the write-down certain inventory and related actions, well $ million restructuring charge. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( MILLIONS) CHARGED ALLOWANCE FOR BEGINNING COSTS AND ENDING DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS: BALANCE EXPENSES DEDUCTIONS( ) BALANCE - ----------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- ----------------- ----------- Year Ended September , .................................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , .................................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , .................................... $ $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. ITEM . CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information regarding directors the Registrant will set forth Proxy Statement under Regulation 14A filed the Company within days the end the fiscal year covered this report (the "Proxy Statement") under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc.--Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Registrant will set forth the Proxy Statement under the caption "Executive Officers," which information hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information regarding executive compensation will set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation," and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", and hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management will set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc.--Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", and hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions will set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation--Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", and hereby incorporated reference. PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) ITEMS FILED PART REPORT: . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . EXHIBITS The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) REPORTS FORM - Current Report Form - dated July , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press releases issued the public July , regarding the resignation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Gilbert . Amelio. Current Report Form - dated September , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press releases issued the public September , regarding the agreement acquire certain assets Power Computing Corporation. Current Report Form - dated September , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press releases issued the public September , regarding the Registrant\' naming Steve Jobs Interim Chief Executive Officer. ( ) EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Agreement and Plan Merger Among Apple Computer, Inc., Blackbird Acquisition Corporation and NeXT Software, Inc., dated December , - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through December , . - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the Indenture). - Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. Registration Rights Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through December , . ** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through December , . ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . **Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - --------------- --------------- ---------------------------------------------------------- ** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. - ** Amendment Employment Agreement, dated May , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. 96K** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ** Employment Agreement effective December , , between Registrant and John . Douglas III. ** Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan, amended through March , . ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Non-Employee Director Stock Plan. - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . **Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Fred . Anderson. ** Resignation Agreement dated September , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Jon Rubinstein. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Avie Tevanian. ** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. Computation earnings (loss) per common share. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent Auditors. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . **Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Power Attorney (included page ). Financial Data Schedule. NOTES - --------------- 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the NOTES quarter ended December , . - --------------- Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . - - , Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , - - , - , and , respectively, the Company\' Registration - - Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , . 96K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . ( ) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE See Item ( )( ) this Form - . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 4th day December . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON ----------------------------------------- Fred . Anderson EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: NAME TITLE DATE - -------------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------- Interim Chief Executive / / STEVEN . JOBS Officer and Director - -------------------------- (Principal Executive December , STEVEN . JOBS Officer) Executive Vice President and / / FRED . ANDERSON Chief Financial Officer - -------------------------- (Principal Financial December , FRED . ANDERSON Officer) / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL - -------------------------- Director December , WILLIAM . CAMPBELL / / GARETH . CHANG - -------------------------- Director December , GARETH . CHANG / / LAWRENCE . ELLISON - -------------------------- Director December , LAWRENCE . ELLISON / / EDGAR . WOOLARD, . - -------------------------- Director December , EDGAR . WOOLARD, . / / JEROME . YORK - -------------------------- Director December , JEROME . YORK ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, Cork and Dublin, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms five additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Cork and Dublin, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately one million square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center. addition, the Company owns , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the ., the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. Certain the Company\' office, manufacturing and distribution facilities owned the Company Sacramento, California, Singapore and the United Kingdom are currently being held for sale part the Company\' restructuring plan, which includes increasing the proportion the Company\' products manufactured and distributed under outsourcing arrangements. Further information regarding the Company\' restructuring plan may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheadings "Restructuring Operations " included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Restructuring Operations," which information hereby incorporated reference. The Company believes that its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and external partnerships, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future even after the sale the foregoing facilities. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Other Factors" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Information regarding legal proceedings set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Litigation," included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 4. ': "SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company' fiscal year ended September , . PART ", 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT\' COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. Options are traded the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the American Stock Exchange. Information regarding the Company\' high and low reported closing prices for its common stock and the number shareholders record set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)", which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere this Form - . FIVE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ----------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales.................................................. $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss).......................................... $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ $ $ Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share..... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share................... $ -- $ $ $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings (loss) per share ( thousands)............................................... , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments......... $ , $ , $ $ , $ Total assets............................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt............................................. $ $ $ $ $ Shareholders\' equity....................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS THIS SECTION AND OTHER PARTS THIS FORM - CONTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THE COMPANY\' ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE RESULTS DISCUSSED THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. FACTORS THAT MIGHT CAUSE SUCH DIFFERENCES INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED , THOSE DISCUSSED THE SUBSECTION ENTITLED "FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION" BELOW. THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION SHOULD READ CONJUNCTION WITH THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES THERETO INCLUDED ELSEWHERE THIS FORM - . ALL INFORMATION BASED THE COMPANY\' FISCAL CALENDAR. OVERVIEW During , the Company continued experience declines net sales, units shipped and share the personal computer market compared prior years. The decline demand and the resulting losses, coupled with intense price competition throughout the industry, led the Company\' decision continue restructure its business during aimed reducing its core structure, improving its competitiveness and restoring sustainable profitability. The Company\' restructuring efforts have included significant headcount reductions, simplifications and modifications the Company\' product lines, increases the proportion products manufactured under outsourcing arrangements and the implementation -line store the . addition, the Company plans increase the proportion products manufactured made- -order basis The Company believes that restructuring actions effected through the fourth quarter , well those currently planned effected during , will decrease operating expenses compared with . There assurance that such decreases operating expenses will achieved that, achieved, such reductions will sufficient offset the decline the Company\' net sales. February , the Company acquired NeXT. NeXT developed, marketed and supported software that enables customers implement business applications the Internet World Wide Web, intranets and enterprise-wide client server networks. The acquisition was accounted for purchase and, accordingly, the operating results pertaining NeXT subsequent the date acquisition have been included the Company\' consolidated operating results. The total purchase price, including the fair value the net liabilities assumed, was $ million which $ million was allocated purchased -process research and development and $ million was allocated goodwill and other intangible assets. The purchased -process research and development was charged operations upon acquisition, and the goodwill and other tangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over two years. The Company had previously entered into agreements license its Mac other personal computer vendors (the "Clone Vendors") part effort increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform. The Company recently determined that the benefits licensing the Mac the Clone Vendors under these agreements were more than offset the impact and costs the licensing program. result, the Company agreed acquire certain assets, including the license distribute the Mac , PCC, clone vendor, and has plans renew its other Mac licensing agreements. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent upon the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet dynamic customer demand patterns, and are also dependent upon its ability effect change marketplace perception the Company\' prospects, including the viability the Macintosh platform. Inherent this process are number factors that the Company must successfully manage order achieve favorable future operating results and favorable financial condition. Potential risks and uncertainties that could affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition include, among other things, continued competitive pressures the marketplace and the effect any reaction the Company such competitive pressures, including pricing actions the Company; the availability key components terms acceptable the Company; the Company\' ability supply products certain categories; the Company\' ability supply products free latent defects other faults; the Company\' ability make timely delivery the marketplace technological innovations, including its ability continue make timely delivery planned enhancements the current Mac and make timely delivery new and substantially backward-compatible operating system; the Company\' ability successfully integrate NeXT technologies, processes and employees with those Apple; the Company\' ability successfully implement its strategic direction and restructuring actions, including reducing its expenditures; the Company\' ability attract, motivate and retain employees, including new Chief Executive Officer; the effects significant adverse publicity; the availability third-party software for particular applications; and the impact the Company\' sales, market share and gross margins result the Company winding down its Mac licensing program. RESULTS OPERATIONS CHANGE CHANGE --------- ----------- --------- ----------- --------- (TABULAR INFORMATION: DOLLARS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales................................................ $ , ( %) $ , ( %) $ , Gross margin............................................. $ , % $ ( %) $ , Percentage net sales................................ % % % Research and development................................. $ ( %) $ ( %) $ Percentage net sales................................ % % % Selling, general and administrative...................... $ , ( %) $ , ( %) $ , Percentage net sales................................ % % % Special Charges -process research and development.................... $ $ -- $ -- Percentage net sales.............................. % --% --% Restructuring costs.................................... $ % $ $ ( ) Percentage net sales.............................. % % --% Termination license agreement....................... $ $ -- $ -- Percentage net sales.............................. % --% --% Interest and other income (expense), net................. $ ( %) $ $ ( ) Net income (loss)........................................ $ ( , ) ( %) $ ( ) ( %) $ Earnings (loss) per share................................ $ ( ) ( %) $ ( ) ( %) $ - ------------------------ : Not Meaningful NET SALES YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , Net sales represent the Company\' gross sales net returns, rebates and discounts. Net sales decreased % compared with . Total Macintosh computer unit sales and peripheral unit sales decreased % and %, respectively, during , compared with , result decline worldwide demand for most the Company\' product families, which the Company believes was due principally continued customer concerns regarding the Company\' strategic direction, financial condition and future prospects, and the viability the Macintosh platform, and competitive pressures the marketplace. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit decreased slightly compared with , primarily due continued pricing actions, including increased rebates, across most product lines, substantially offset shift product mix toward the Company\' newer and higher priced PowerBook products. The average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit did not change compared with . For information regarding quarterly net sales, see "Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)" Part , Item this Form - . International net sales represented % total net sales compared with % net sales . International net sales declined % compared with . Net sales European markets and Japan decreased during compared with , result decreases Macintosh computer and peripheral unit sales and the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit Japan, which were partially offset increase the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit. Further discussion relating factors contributing the decline net sales the Japanese market may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Domestic net sales declined % during compared with , due decreases unit sales Macintosh computers and peripheral products and the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit the . did not change compared with . During , compared with , the Company\' estimated share the worldwide and . personal computer markets declined % from %, and % from %, respectively, based upon current market information provided industry sources. The Company believes that net sales will below the level the prior year\' comparable periods through least the second fiscal quarter , not longer. COMPARED WITH Net sales decreased % the fourth quarter compared with the same quarter . Total Macintosh computer unit sales and peripheral unit sales decreased % and %, respectively, the fourth quarter , compared with the same period , which the Company believes was due principally continued customer concerns regarding the Company\' strategic direction, financial condition and future prospects, and the viability the Macintosh platform, and competitive pressures the marketplace. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit decreased slightly the fourth quarter compared with the same period , result continued pricing actions, including increased rebates, across most product lines, partially offset increase the average aggregate revenue per Powerbook unit. The average aggregate revenue per peripheral product also decreased slightly for the foregoing reasons. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer unit and per peripheral unit will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including industrywide pricing pressures, increased competition, and the need stimulate demand for the Company\' products. International net sales represented % total net sales the fourth quarter compared with % net sales the same period . International net sales declined % the fourth quarter compared with the same period . Net sales decreased the European markets and decreased significantly Japan during the fourth quarter compared with the same period , result decreases Macintosh and peripheral unit sales Europe and Japan and the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit the European markets and the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit Japan. These decreases were partially offset increases the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit Europe and the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit Japan. Further discussion relating factors contributing the decline net sales the Japanese market may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Domestic net sales declined % the fourth quarter over the comparable period , due decreases unit sales Macintosh computers and peripheral products and the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit, partially offset increase the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit. During the fourth quarter compared with the comparable period , the Company\' estimated share the worldwide and . personal computer markets declined % from %, and % from %, respectively, based upon current market information provided industry sources. COMPARED WITH Net sales decreased % the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter . Total Macintosh computer unit sales decreased % the fourth quarter compared with the prior quarter which the Company believes was due principally continued customer concerns regarding the Company\' strategic direction, financial condition and future prospects, and the viability the Macintosh platform, and competitive pressures the marketplace, well continued easing pent- demand for new PowerBook products which were introduced the second quarter. addition, unit sales Japan decreased significantly the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter , primarily result weaker personal computer market. Unit sales peripheral products decreased slightly the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter . The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer unit remained constant higher average aggregate revenue per "Value" (entry level Power Macintosh) unit was offset lower average aggregate revenue per Powerbook unit and aggressive pricing discontinued products. The average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit decreased % the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter . Furthermore, the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer and peripheral unit was unfavorably affected pricing actions, including increased rebates, across most product lines. International net sales represented % total net sales the fourth quarter , compared with % the third quarter . International net sales decreased % the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter , primarily result significant decrease net sales Macintosh computers and peripheral products Japan and decrease the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit, slightly offset increase the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit. Further discussion relating factors contributing the decline net sales the Japanese market may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Domestic net sales increased % the fourth quarter compared with the prior quarter, due increases Macintosh and peripheral unit sales and the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer unit, which increases were slightly offset decrease the average aggregate revenue per peripheral unit. During the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter , the Company\' estimated share the worldwide and . personal computer markets decreased % from %, and % from %, respectively, based upon current market information provided industry sources. YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , Net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing $ , million, %; $ , million, %; and $ million, %; during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods , due decrease net sales Macintosh computers and peripheral products. Total Macintosh computer unit sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods . This decline unit sales was result decline lack growth worldwide demand for all product families, which the Company believes was due principally customer concerns regarding the Company\' strategic direction, financial condition, and future prospects, and due delays the shipment certain PowerBook products result quality problems. addition, unit sales peripheral products trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % during the twelve, nine and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods , for the reasons noted above. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased slightly during the twelve and three months ended September , , and decreased slightly during the nine months ended September , , compared with the same periods , primarily due continued shift product mix toward the Company\' newer products and products with multimedia configurations, offset varying degrees pricing actions across all product lines. The average aggregate revenue per peripheral product was flat during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods . International net sales represented % net sales compared with % net sales . International net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, % and % during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the same periods . Net sales European markets trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods , result decrease Macintosh and peripheral unit sales, partially offset increase the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh and per peripheral unit, primarily during the first part the year. Net sales Japan trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , compared with the same periods . increase Macintosh unit sales during these periods was more than offset decrease the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh and per peripheral unit and decrease peripheral unit sales. Domestic net sales trended downward beginning the second quarter , decreasing %, %, and % for the twelve, nine, and three months ended September , , respectively, compared with the corresponding periods , resulting from decline lack growth demand for all product families. the fourth quarter compared with the fourth quarter , the Company\' share the worldwide and . personal computer markets declined % from %, and % from %, respectively, based current information provided industry sources. BACKLOG general, the Company\' resellers purchase products -needed basis. Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates depending changing market conditions. Unfilled orders (backlog) can , and often are, canceled will. The Company attempts fill orders the requested delivery schedules. However, products may relatively short supply from time time until production volumes have reached level sufficient meet demand other production fulfillment constraints exist. The Company\' backlog unfilled orders decreased approximately $ million November , from approximately $ million November , and consisted primarily the Company\' "Flagship" line higher-end Power Macintosh products. The Company\' backlog November , consisted primarily the Company\' PowerBook products, well the Company\' "Flagship" line higher-end Power Macintosh products. The Company expects that substantially all its orders backlog November , will either shipped canceled during fiscal . the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following introduction new products because overordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, well other factors affecting the Company\' backlog, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Further information regarding the Company\' backlog may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Product Introductions and Transitions" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. GROSS MARGIN Gross margin represents the difference between the Company\' net sales and its cost goods sold. The amount revenue generated per unit sold influenced the price set the Company for its products. The cost goods sold based primarily the cost components and, lesser extent, direct labor costs. The type and cost components included particular configurations the Company\' products (such memory and disk drives) are often directly related the need market products configurations competitive with other manufacturers. Competition the personal computer industry intense and, the short term, frequent changes pricing and product configuration are often necessary order remain competitive. Accordingly, gross margin percentage net sales can significantly influenced the short term actions undertaken the Company response industrywide competitive pressures. Gross margin increased from % % sales during compared , primarily result $ million charge the second quarter that related principally the write-down certain inventory, well the cost cancelling excess component orders necessitated significantly lower than expected demand for many the Company\' products, primarily its "Value" line Power Macintosh products (formerly generally referred entry level and Performa-Registered Trademark- products). The Company separately incurred approximately $ million charges during provide for the estimated costs correcting certain quality problems certain its "Value" line Power Macintosh products, well PowerBook and peripheral products, covering both goods held inventory and shipped goods. addition, gross margins the second quarter , and lesser degree the first quarter that year, were adversely affected aggressive pricing actions Japan response extreme competitive actions other companies, well price reductions the United States and Europe across all product lines order stimulate demand. Gross margin decreased from % % sales during the fourth quarter compared the same period , and remained constant compared the third quarter . This was primarily result certain pricing actions effected the Company noted above, well the Company\' inability fulfill all purchase orders certain high-margin Power Macintosh product due the unavailability sufficient quantities certain components, which were offset varying degrees sales the Company\' new operating system, Mac , during the fourth quarter . The gross margin levels the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter and the fourth quarter , and compared with , were also adversely affected stronger . dollar relative certain foreign currencies. This negative impact was offset currency hedging. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account changes exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. There can assurance that the Company will able sustain the gross margin levels achieved . Gross margins will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industrywide global pricing pressures, increased competition, and compressed product life cycles. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. The Company expects experience additional pricing pressure through least the first fiscal quarter result the Company winding down its Mac licensing program, including the acquisition its Mac license and other assets Power Computing Corporation ("PCC"), the Company expects certain Mac licensees sell aggressively their remaining inventory early fiscal . Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage quality problems and warranty costs, and stimulate demand for certain its products. Gross margin decreased % compared with % . This decrease primarily the result $ million charge the second quarter for the write-down certain inventory, well the costs cancelling excess component orders, necessitated significantly lower than expected demand for many the Company\' products, primarily its entry-level products. The Company separately incurred approximately $ million charges during the last nine months provide for the estimated costs correcting certain quality problems certain the "Value" line Power Macintosh products well PowerBook and peripheral products, covering both goods held inventory and shipped goods. The Company also incurred greater warranty expenses per unit sold during compared with . The decrease gross margin was also due the Company\' response extreme competitive actions other companies attempting gain market share, including the Company\' pricing actions the ., Japan and Europe across most product lines, which were partially offset decrease the cost certain product components. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CHANGE CHANGE --------- ----------- --------- ------------- --------- Research and development......................................... $ ( %) $ ( %) $ Percentage net sales........................................ % % % Research and development expenditures decreased dollar amounts when compared with , primarily due certain restructuring actions, including reduction headcount and the cancellation certain research and development related contracts, taken during . The increase research and development expenses percentage net sales resulted from decrease the level net sales. There was slight decrease research and development expenditures during compared with . The slight increase percentage net sales over was the result decrease net sales during . The Company believes that continued and focused investments research and development are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related continued, timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. The Company believes that research and development expenditures will decrease compared the Company completes and more fully realizes the cost reduction benefits its restructuring plan. Information relating -process research and development may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading " -process Research and Development" included under the heading "Special Charges," which information hereby incorporated reference. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE CHANGE CHANGE --------- ----------- --------- ------------- --------- Selling, general and administrative......................... $ , ( %) $ , ( %) $ , Percentage net sales................................... % % % Selling, general and administrative expenditures decreased dollar amounts when compared , primarily due certain restructuring actions, including reduction headcount, the closing facilities, and the writedown assets, taken during , and lower variable expenses. The increase selling, general and administrative expenditures percentage net sales resulted from decrease the level net sales. , selling, general and administrative expenditures remained essentially flat when compared . The increase percentage net sales over was the result decrease net sales during . The Company believes that selling, general and administrative expenditures will decrease compared the Company completes and more fully realizes the cost reduction benefits its restructuring plan. The Company believes that selling, general and administrative expenditures will decrease only slightly the first quarter compared the fourth quarter result continued cost reduction benefits from the restructuring plan, partially offset planned advertising spending. SPECIAL CHARGES -PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT result the NeXT acquisition, the Company took substantial charge for -process research and development during . Further discussion relating the Company\' acquisition NeXT, including the related -process research and development charge, may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "NeXT Acquisition" included under the heading "Special Charges", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information relating the Company\' research and development expenditures, may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Research and Development" and Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Research and Development," which information hereby incorporated reference. RESTRUCTURING COSTS Information relating the Company\' restructuring costs may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading "Restructuring Operations" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Restructuring Operations" included under the heading "Special Charges," which information hereby incorporated reference. TERMINATION LICENSE AGREEMENT Information relating the Company\' termination license agreement may found this Part , Item Form - under the subheading "Competition" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Termination License Agreement" included under the heading "Special Charges," which information hereby incorporated reference. INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET CHANGE CHANGE ----- ----------- ----- ----------- --------- Interest and other income (expense), net............................ $ ( %) $ $ ( ) Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $ million from $ million . The decrease primarily due gains realized sales available-for-sale and other securities. Interest and other income (expense), net, also decreased compared the prior year due decreased foreign exchange gains, net cost, compared , partially offset higher average cash balances during . Over the last two years, the Company\' debt ratings have been downgraded non-investment grade. The Company\' cost funds may increase result the downgrading the second quarter its senior and subordinated long-term debt and Caa2, respectively, Moody\' Investor Services, and the downgrading October its senior and subordinated long-term debt - and CCC, respectively, Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency. , interest and other income (expense), net, increased $ million income from $ million expense . This $ million favorable change was primarily composed favorable variance $ million related net realized and unrealized foreign exchange hedging gains and lower foreign exchange hedging costs, primarily result lower market and option volatility, higher . interest rates compared with rates abroad, and reduced foreign currency cash flows; increase $ million related realized gains the sale most the Company\' available-for-sale and other equity securities during , partially offset $ million unfavorable variance, result higher average debt balances and lower average cash balances during , and overall decline average interest rate yields. summary the Company\' interest and other income (expense), net, hedge horizons and accounting for financial instruments, and notes payable banks and long-term debt, may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. PROVISION (BENEFIT) FOR INCOME TAXES September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. substantial portion this asset realizable based the ability offset existing deferred tax liabilities. , increase the valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses which may not realized. Realization approximately $ million the asset representing tax loss and credit carryforwards dependent the Company\' ability generate approximately $ million future . taxable income. Management believes that more likely than not that forecasted . income, including income that may generated result certain tax-planning strategies, will sufficient utilize the tax carryforwards prior their expiration and fully recover this asset. However, there can assurance that the Company will meet its expectations future . income. result, the amount the deferred tax assets considered realizable could reduced the near and long term estimates future taxable . income are reduced. Such occurrence could materially adversely affect the Company\' financial results. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. Additional information relating income taxes, may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION RESTRUCTURING OPERATIONS During , the Company began implement certain restructuring actions aimed reducing its cost structure, improving its competitiveness, and restoring sustainable profitability. During , the Company announced and began implement supplemental restructuring actions, including significant headcount reductions, meet the foregoing objectives. There are several risks inherent the Company\' efforts transition new cost structure. These include the risk that the Company will not able reduce expenditures quickly enough restore sustainable profitability and the risk that cost-cutting initiatives will impair the Company\' ability innovate and remain competitive the computer industry. Implementation this restructuring involves several risks, including the risk that simplifying and modifying its product line the Company will increase its dependence fewer products, potentially reduce overall sales, and increase its reliance unproven products and technology. Another risk the restructuring that increasing the proportion the Company\' products manufactured under outsourcing arrangements, the Company could lose control the quality quantity the products manufactured and distributed, lose the flexibility make timely changes production schedules order respond changing market conditions. part its restructuring, the Company announced and opened its -line store, which makes available most its products end-users the ., November . There can assurance the -line store will result greater sales. The Company also began manufacturing products build- -order basis November . There can assurance this manufacturing process will result decreased costs increased gross margins. The Company also reducing the number wholesale and retail channel partners, particularly the Americas, which places greater volume sales through fewer partners. There can assurance that this will not adversely impact the Company. addition, the actions taken connection with the restructuring could adversely affect employee morale, thereby damaging the Company\' ability retain and motivate employees. Also, because the Company contemplates relying greater extent collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, the Company will have less direct control over certain its research and development efforts, and its ability create innovative new products may reduced. addition, there can assurance that the technologies acquired from NeXT will successfully exploited, that key NeXT employees and processes will retained and successfully integrated with those Apple. Also, the restructuring includes the winding down the Company\' Mac licensing program. There can assurance that the winding down this program will result greater sales, market share, and increased gross margins the Company. addition, there can assurance that this action will not result the availability fewer application software titles for the Mac , which may result decrease the Company\' sales, market share and gross margins. Finally, even the restructuring successfully implemented, there can assurance that will effectively resolve the various issues currently facing the Company. Although the Company believes that the actions taking connection with the restructuring, including its acquisition NeXT and the winding down its Mac licensing program, should help restore marketplace confidence the Company, there can assurance that such actions will enable the Company achieve its objectives reducing its cost structure, improving its competitiveness, and restoring sustainable profitability. The Company\' future consolidated operating results and financial condition could adversely affected should encounter difficulty effectively managing the restructuring and new cost structure. Additional information relating the restructuring operations may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Restructuring Operations" included under the heading "Special Charges," which information hereby incorporated reference. PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS AND TRANSITIONS Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continuously introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products order remain competitive. Recent introductions include certain PowerBook and Power Macintosh products, and the introduction Mac July . The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. addition, although the number new product introductions may decrease result the Company\' restructuring actions, the risks and uncertainties associated with new product introductions may increase the Company refocuses its product offerings key growth segments and the extent new product introductions are markets that are new the Company. The rate product shipments immediately following introduction new product not necessarily indication the future rate shipments for that product, which depends many factors, some which are not under the control the Company. These factors may include initial large purchases small segment the user population that tends purchase new technology prior its acceptance the majority users ("early adopters"); purchases satisfaction pent- demand users who anticipated new technology and, result, deferred purchases other products; and overordering dealers who anticipate shortages due the aforementioned factors. These factors may offset others, such the deferral purchases many users until new technology accepted "proven" and for which commonly used software products are available; and the reduction orders dealers once they believe they can obtain sufficient supply products previously backlog. Backlog often volatile after new product introductions due the aforementioned demand factors, often increasing coincident with introduction, and then decreasing once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply the new products. The Company has the past experienced difficulty anticipating demand for new products, resulting product shortages which have adversely affected the Company\' operating results. The measurement demand for newly introduced products further complicated the availability different product configurations, which may include various types built- peripherals and software. Configurations may also require certain localization (such language) for various markets and, result, demand different geographic areas may function the availability third-party software those localized versions. For example, the availability European-language versions software products manufactured . producers may lag behind the availability . versions quarter more. This may result lower initial demand for the Company\' new products outside the ., even though localized versions the Company\' products may available. The increasing integration new enhanced functions and complexity operations the Company\' products also increase the risk that latent defects other faults could discovered customers end-users after volumes products have been produced shipped. such defects were significant, the Company could incur material recall and replacement costs under product warranties. The Company has announced plans for two operating systems. The Company plans continue introduce major upgrades the current Mac and later introduce new operating system (code named "Rhapsody") which expected offer advanced functionality based Apple and NeXT software technologies. However, the NeXT software technologies that the Company plans use the development Rhapsody were not originally designed compatible with the Mac . result, there can assurance that the development Rhapsody can completed reasonable cost all. addition, Rhapsody may not fully backward-compatible with all existing applications, which could result loss existing customers. Finally, uncertain whether Rhapsody the planned enhancements the current Mac will gain developer support and market acceptance. Inability successfully develop and make timely delivery substantially backward-compatible Rhapsody planned enhancements the current Mac , gain developer support and market acceptance for those operating systems, may have adverse impact the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition. COMPETITION The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. The Company\' consolidated results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected industrywide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality and hardware performance and features based existing emerging industry standards. Many the Company\' competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. The Company\' future consolidated operating results and financial condition may affected overall demand for personal computers and general customer preferences for one platform over another one set product features over another. The Company currently the primary maker hardware that uses the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers that run the Microsoft Windows and Windows operating systems. The Company believes that the Mac , with its perceived advantages over Windows, and the general reluctance the Macintosh installed base incur the costs switching platforms, have been driving forces behind sales the Company\' personal computer hardware for the past several years. Recent innovations the Windows platform, including those included Windows and Windows , those expected included new version Windows introduced , have added features the Windows platform that make the differences between the Mac and Microsoft\' Windows operating systems less significant. The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result the recent innovations the Windows platform. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition will substantially dependent its ability maintain continuing improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived functional advantages over competing platforms. The Company had previously entered into agreements license its Mac other personal computer vendors (the "Clone Vendors") part effort increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform. The Company recently determined that the benefits licensing the Mac the Clone Vendors under these agreements were more than offset the impact and costs the licensing program. result, the Company agreed acquire certain assets, including the license distribute the Mac , PCC, Clone Vendor, and has plans renew its other Mac licensing agreements. Although the Company believes that this winding down its licensing program will help reduce the adverse impact the licensing program the Company\' sales, market share and gross margins, there can assurance that this will occur. addition, there can assurance that this winding down the licensing program will not result the availability fewer application software titles for the Mac , which may result decrease the Company\' sales, market share and gross margins. supplemental means addressing the competition from Windows and other platforms, the Company had previously devoted substantial resources toward developing personal computer products capable running application software designed for the Windows operating systems. These products include add- card containing Pentium -class microprocessor that enables users run applications concurrently that require the Mac , Windows Windows operating systems. The Company plans transition the cross-platform business third-parties during . There can assurance that this transition will successful. The Company, International Business Machines Corporation and Motorola, Inc. had agreed upon and announced the availability specifications for PowerPC microprocessor-based hardware platform (the "Platform"). These specifications defined "unified" personal computer architecture that would have given the Clone Vendors broad access the Power Macintosh platform and would have utilized standard industry components. The Company had intended license the Mac manufacturers the Platform. However, the Company has decided will longer support the Platform based upon its decision wind down its Mac licensing program, and because little industry support for the Platform. The decision not further develop this Platform may affect the Company\' ability increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including education and publishing. Many these companies have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources than the Company. August , the Company and Microsoft entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. Under these agreements, the companies provided patent cross licenses each other. addition, for period five years from August , Microsoft will make future versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac , and the Company will bundle the Internet Explorer product with Mac system software releases and make that product the default Internet browser for such releases. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series \' \' non-voting convertible preferred stock for $ million. While the Company believes that its relationship with Microsoft will beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Microsoft relationship for limited term and does not cover many the areas which the Company competes with Microsoft, including the Windows platform. addition, the Microsoft relationship may have adverse effect , among other things, the Company\' relationship with other partners. There can assurance that the benefits the Company the Microsoft relationship will not offset the disadvantages. SUPPORT FROM THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS Decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company believes that the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' recent financial losses and declining demand for the Company\' products, well the Company\' decision wind down its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. Moreover, the Company\' current plan introduce new operating system (code named "Rhapsody") could cause software developers stop developing software for the current Mac . addition, there can assurance that software developers will decide develop software for the new operating system timely basis all. Microsoft important developer application software for the Company\' products. Although the Company has entered into relationship with Microsoft, which includes Microsoft\' agreement develop and ship future versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products and certain other Microsoft tools for the Mac , such relationship for limited term and does not cover many areas which the Company competes with Microsoft. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac not covered the relationship upon expiration the relationship may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system. GLOBAL MARKET RISKS large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' consolidated operations and financial results could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold. Countries the Asia Pacific region, including Japan, have recently experienced weaknesses their currency, banking and equity markets. These weaknesses could adversely affect consumer demand for the Company\' product, the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales, the availability and supply product components the Company, and ultimately the Company\' consolidated results operations. When the . dollar strengthens against other currencies, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales decreases. When the . dollar weakens, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales increases. Correspondingly, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based costs increases when the . dollar weakens and decreases when the . dollar strengthens. Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' consolidated sales and gross margins ( expressed . dollars). While the Company exposed with respect fluctuations the interest rates many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. mitigate the impact fluctuations . interest rates, the Company has entered into interest rate swap, collar, and floor transactions. ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap, option and floor positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency- and interest rate-related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities, there can assurance that the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial position. The Company does not engage leveraged hedging. The Company\' current financial condition may increase the costs its hedging transactions, well affect the nature the hedging transactions into which the Company\' counterparties are willing enter. Additional information regarding the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate risk management programs and the accounting thereon, may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. INVENTORY AND SUPPLY The Company makes provision for inventories products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand, accrues for any cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been canceled, and accrues for the estimated costs correct any product quality problems. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are adequate given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer industry, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may again have, material effect the Company\' consolidated financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory well advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk that the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce excess insufficient inventories particular products. The Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Certain the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers, either pursuant design specifications the Company otherwise. part its restructuring actions, the Company sold its Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI and entered into related manufacturing outsourcing agreement with SCI; sold its Singapore printed circuit board manufacturing assets NatSteel Electronics Pte., Ltd., which expected supply main logic boards the Company under manufacturing outsourcing agreement; entered into agreement with Ryder Integrated Logistics, Inc. outsource the Company\' domestic operations transportation and logistics management; and has entered into other similar agreements outsource the Company\' European operations transportation and logistics management. result the foregoing actions, the proportion the Company\' products produced and distributed under outsourcing arrangements will continue increase. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they will also reduce the direct control the Company has over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Furthermore, any efforts the Company manage its inventory under outsourcing arrangements could subject the Company liquidated damages cancellation the arrangement. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company remains least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service. Accordingly, the event product defects warranty liability, the Company may remain primarily liable. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future consolidated operating results and financial condition. Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single sources. the supply key single-sourced component were delayed curtailed, the Company\' business and financial performance could adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. The Company believes that the availability from suppliers the personal computer industry microprocessors and ASICs presents the most significant potential for constraining the Company\' ability manufacture products. Some advanced microprocessors are currently the early stages ramp- for production and thus have limited availability. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for other semiconductor products with other industries that have experienced increased demand for such products, due either increased consumer demand increased use semiconductors their products (such the cellular phone and automotive industries). Finally, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry (including certain microprocessors and ASICs). Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Such product supply constraints and corresponding increased costs could decrease the Company\' net sales and adversely affect the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Motorola, the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, supply Company adequate numbers microprocessors that produce superior price performance results compared with those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, and other developers and producers the microprocessors used most personal computers using the Windows operating systems. The desire IBM and Motorola continue producing these microprocessors may influenced Microsoft\' decision not adapt its Windows operating system software run the PowerPC microprocessor. IBM produces personal computers based Intel microprocessors well workstations based the PowerPC microprocessor, and also the developer , competing operating system the Company\' Mac . Accordingly, IBM\' interest supplying the Company with microprocessors for the Company\' products may influenced IBM\' perception its interests competing manufacturer personal computers and competing operating system vendor. addition, Motorola has recently announced its intention stop producing Mac clones. result, Motorola may less inclined continue produce PowerPC microprocessors. The Company\' current financial condition and uncertainties related recent events could affect the terms which suppliers are willing supply the Company with their products. There can assurance that the Company\' current suppliers will continue supply the Company terms acceptable the Company that the Company will able obtain comparable products from alternate sources such terms. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected the Company unable continue obtain key components terms substantially similar those currently available the Company. Further discussion relating availability and supply components and product may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Raw Materials," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply and Material Product" included under the heading "Concentrations Risk" and under the subheading "Purchase Commitments" included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION number uncertainties may affect the marketing and distribution the Company\' products. Currently, the Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, mass merchants, cataloguers and direct education institutions (collectively referred "resellers"). addition, November the Company began selling many its products directly end users the . through the Company\' -line store. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins. Most such resellers also distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakened resellers within consumer channels were decide not continue distribute the Company\' products. Uncertainty over demand for the Company\' products may continue cause resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. addition, the Company has the past and may the future experience delays ordering resellers light uncertain demand for the Company\' products. Under the Company\' arrangements with its resellers, resellers have the option reduce eliminate unfilled orders previously placed, most instances without financial penalty. Resellers also have the option return products the Company without penalty within certain limits, beyond which they may assessed fees. The Company has recently revised its channel program, including decreasing the number resellers and reducing returns, price protection and certain rebate programs, effort reduce channel inventory, increase inventory turns, increase product support within the channel and improve gross margins. addition, November the Company opened its -line store the . which makes many the Company\' products available directly the end-user. Although the Company believes the foregoing changes will improve its consolidated operating results and financial condition, there can assurance that this will occur. Further discussion relating Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution," which information hereby incorporated reference. CHANGE SENIOR MANAGEMENT July , , the Company announced that . Gilbert . Amelio had resigned his positions Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer and that the Company was initiating search for new Chief Executive Officer. While the Company intends name new Chief Executive Officer soon practicable, there can assurance that the change senior management and related uncertainties will not adversely affect the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition during the period until new Chief Executive Officer hired and afterward. addition, certain members the Company\' senior management have been with the Company for less than six months. There can assurance that new members the management team can successfully assimilated, that the Company will able satisfactorily allocate responsibilities that such new members its management will succeed their roles timely and efficient manner. The Company\' failure recruit, retain and assimilate new executives, the failure any such executive perform effectively, the loss any such executive, could have material adverse impact the Company\' business, financial condition and results operations. CHANGES BOARD DIRECTORS The Company announced August , significant changes its Board Directors, replacing all but two former directors. The continuing directors are Gareth . Chang, Corporate Senior Vice President, Marketing, Hughes Electronics and President, Hughes International, and Edgar . Woolard, ., retired Chairman . DuPont Nemours & Company. The new directors are William . Campbell, President and CEO Intuit Corp.; Lawrence . Ellison, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Oracle Corp.; Steven . Jobs, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios; and Jerome . York, Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation and former Chief Financial Officer IBM and Chrysler Corporation. DEPENDENCE KEY EMPLOYEES During the past several years, the Company has experienced significant voluntary employee turnover result employees\' concerns over the Company\' prospects, well the abundance career opportunities available elsewhere. The Company dependent its key employees order achieve its business plan. There can assurance the Company will able attract, motivate and retain key employees. Failure may have significant effect the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition. OTHER FACTORS The Company the process identifying operating and application software challenges related the year . While the Company expects resolve year compliance issues substantially through normal replacement and upgrades software, there can assurance that there will not interruption operations other limitations system functionality that the Company will not incur substantial costs avoid such limitations. Any failure effectively monitor, implement improve the Company\' operational, financial, management and technical support systems could have material adverse effect the Company\' business and consolidated results operations. The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including certain major vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations which include, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and leave responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. unclear what effect such regulations will have the Company\' future consolidated operating results and financial condition. The Company recently decided replace its existing transaction systems the . (which include order management, product procurement, distribution, and finance) with single integrated system part its ongoing effort increase operational efficiency. Substantially all the transaction systems the European operations were replaced with the same integrated system . The Company\' future consolidated operating results and financial condition could adversely affected the Company unable implement and effectively manage the transition this new integrated system. Because the foregoing factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' consolidated operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. addition, the Company\' participation highly dynamic industry often results significant volatility the Company\' common stock price. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company\' consolidated financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, net notes payable banks, decreased $ , million September , , from $ , million September , . The Company\' consolidated financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments decreased $ , million September , , from $ , million September , . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and September , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged collateral support letters credit primarily associated with the Company\' purchase commitments under the terms the sale the Company\' Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI. Cash generated operations during totaled $ million. Cash generated operations was primarily the result decreases accounts receivable and inventories, partially offset the Company\' net loss, adjusted for non-cash expenditures such -process research and development, well decreases accounts payable. Cash used acquire NeXT totaled $ million . The Company expects additional cash expenditures related the NeXT acquisition. Net cash used for the purchase property, plant, and equipment totaled $ million , and consisted primarily increases manufacturing machinery and equipment. The Company expects that the level capital expenditures will comparable . Cash generated financing activities included the sale $ million Apple Series non-voting convertible preferred stock Microsoft Corporation. Cash used financing activities included $ million retire notes payable banks. Over the last two years, the Company\' debt ratings have been downgraded non-investment grade. October , the Company\' senior and subordinated long-term debt were downgraded - and CCC, respectively, Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency. the second quarter , the Company\' debt ratings were downgraded and Caa2, respectively, Moody\' Investor Services. Both Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency and Moody\' Investor Services have the Company negative outlook. These actions may increase the Company\' cost funds future periods. addition, the Company may required pledge additional collateral with respect certain its borrowings and letters credit and agree more stringent covenants than the past. The Company believes that its balances cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, and continued short-term borrowings from banks, will sufficient meet its cash requirements over the next twelve months. Expected cash requirements over the next twelve months include estimated $ million effect actions under the restructuring plan, most which will effected during the first half fiscal . assurance can given that the $ million short-term borrowings from banks can continued, that any additional required financing could obtained should the restructuring plan take longer implement than anticipated unsuccessful. the Company unable obtain such financing, its liquidity, results operations, and financial condition would materially adversely affected. The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the . Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although substantial number the issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- Financial Statements: Report KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent Auditors.................................................... Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors........................................................ Consolidated Balance Sheets September , , and September , ............................. Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , ................ Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , ...... Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , ................ Notes Consolidated Financial Statements............................................................... Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)..................................................... Financial Statement Schedule: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule - Valuation and qualifying accounts........................................................ All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. REPORT KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity and cash flows for the year then ended. connection with our audits the consolidated financial statements, have also audited the accompanying financial statement schedule. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic consolidated financial statements taken whole, presents fairly, all material respects, the information set forth therein. / / KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP ------------------------------------------ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP San Jose, California October , REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Shareholders and Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet Apple Computer, Inc. September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the two years the period ended September , . Our audits also include the financial statement schedule for each the two years the period ended September , listed the Index the Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Computer, Inc. September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the two years the period ended September , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly, all material respects, the information set forth therein. / / ERNST & YOUNG LLP ------------------------------------------ Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (DOLLARS MILLIONS) ASSETS: SEPTEMBER , AND SEPTEMBER , - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------- --------- Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents..................................................................... $ , $ , Short-term investments........................................................................ Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ ($ ).............. , , Inventories: Purchased parts............................................................................. Work process............................................................................. Finished goods.............................................................................. --------- --------- Deferred tax assets........................................................................... Other current assets.......................................................................... --------- --------- Total current assets...................................................................... , , --------- --------- Property, plant, and equipment: Land and buildings............................................................................ Machinery and equipment....................................................................... Office furniture and equipment................................................................ Leasehold improvements........................................................................ --------- --------- , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization..................................................... ( ) ( ) --------- --------- Net property, plant, and equipment........................................................ --------- --------- Other assets.................................................................................... --------- --------- $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- --------- LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Notes payable banks........................................................................ $ $ Accounts payable.............................................................................. Accrued compensation and employee benefits.................................................... Accrued marketing and distribution............................................................ Accrued warranty and related.................................................................. Accrued restructuring costs................................................................... Other current liabilities..................................................................... --------- --------- Total current liabilities................................................................. , , --------- --------- Long-term debt.................................................................................. Deferred tax liabilities........................................................................ Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Series non-voting convertible preferred stock, par value; , shares authorized, issued and outstanding...................................................................... -- Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , shares issued and outstanding ( , , shares )............................................ Retained earnings............................................................................. , Other......................................................................................... ( ) ( ) --------- --------- Total shareholders\' equity................................................................ , , --------- --------- $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- --------- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS (DOLLARS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- --------- Net sales........................................................................ $ , $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- Costs and expenses: Cost sales.................................................................. , , , Research and development....................................................... Selling, general and administrative............................................ , , , Special charges: -process research and development.......................................... -- -- Restructuring costs.......................................................... ( ) Termination license agreement............................................. -- -- --------- --------- --------- , , , --------- --------- --------- Operating income (loss).......................................................... ( , ) ( , ) Interest and other income (expense), net ( ) --------- --------- --------- Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes........................ ( , ) ( , ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes............................................. -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- Net income (loss)................................................................ $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share........................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings (loss) per share ( thousands)....................................................... , , , --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY (DOLLARS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) PREFERRED STOCK COMMON STOCK TOTAL ------------------------- ------------------------- RETAINED SHAREHOLDERS\' SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT EARNINGS OTHER EQUITY ---------------- ------- ---------------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- ( THOUSANDS) ( THOUSANDS) Balance September , .... -- $ -- , $ $ , $( ) $ , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits........................ -- -- , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share........................... -- -- -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment...................... -- -- -- -- -- Change unrealized gains available-for-sale securities... -- -- -- -- -- Net income........................ -- -- -- -- -- Other............................. -- -- -- -- -- --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- Balance September , .... -- -- , , , --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits........................ -- -- , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share........................... -- -- -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Net loss.......................... -- -- -- -- ( ) -- ( ) --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- Balance September , .... -- -- , , ( ) , --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans and other, and connection with the acquisition NeXT......... -- -- , -- -- Series non-voting convertible preferred stock issued.......... -- -- -- -- Accumulated translation adjustment...................... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Net loss.......................... -- -- -- -- ( , ) -- ( , ) --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- Balance September , .... $ , $ $ $( ) $ , --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- --- ------- ------- ------- -------- ----- ------------- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS (DOLLARS MILLIONS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------ ------- Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the period................................. $ , $ $ , ------- ------ ------- Operating: Net income (loss).................................................................. ( , ) ( ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) cash generated (used for) operating activities: Depreciation and amortization.................................................... Net book value property, plant, and equipment retirements..................... -process research and development.............................................. -- -- Changes operating assets and liabilities, net effects the acquisition NeXT: Accounts receivable.............................................................. ( ) Inventories...................................................................... , ( ) Deferred tax assets.............................................................. ( ) Other current assets............................................................. ( ) Accounts payable................................................................. ( ) ( ) Accrued restructuring costs...................................................... ( ) Other current liabilities........................................................ ( ) ( ) Deferred tax liabilities......................................................... ( ) ( ) ------- ------ ------- Cash generated (used for) operating activities.............................. ( ) ------- ------ ------- Investing: Purchase short-term investments................................................. ( ) ( ) ( , ) Proceeds from sales and maturities short-term investments....................... , Purchase property, plant, and equipment......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used acquire NeXT.......................................................... ( ) -- -- Other.............................................................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) ------- ------ ------- Cash used for investing activities............................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) ------- ------ ------- Financing: Increase (decrease) notes payable banks...................................... ( ) ( ) Increase (decrease) long-term borrowings........................................ -- ( ) Proceeds from issuance preferred stock.......................................... -- -- Increases common stock, net acquisition NeXT.............................. Cash dividends..................................................................... -- ( ) ( ) ------- ------ ------- Cash generated financing activities......................................... ------- ------ ------- Total cash generated (used)........................................................ ( ) ( ) ------- ------ ------- Cash and cash equivalents, end the period....................................... $ , $ , $ ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ------- Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest........................................... $ $ $ Cash paid (received) for income taxes, net....................................... $ ( ) $ $ Noncash transactions: Tax benefit from stock options................................................. $ -- $ $ Issuance common stock for acquisition NeXT............................... $ $ -- $ -- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NATURE OPERATIONS Apple Computer (the "Company") designs, manufactures, and markets microprocessor-based personal computers and related personal computing products for sale primarily education, creative, home, business, and government customers. BASIS PRESENTATION The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company\' fiscal year-end the last Friday September. ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES GENERAL The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES PROVISIONS FOR INVENTORY WRITE-DOWNS AND RELATED ACCRUALS The Company\' provisions for inventory write-downs, well accruals for the cost cancel excess component orders, are based the Company\' best estimates product sales prices and customer demand patterns, and its plans transition its products. However, the Company participates highly competitive industry that characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressures gross margins, frequent introductions new products, short product life cycles, rapid technological advances, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, and price sensitivity and changing demand patterns the part consumers. result the industry\' ever-changing and dynamic nature, least reasonably possible that the estimates used the Company determine its provisions for inventory write-downs, well its accruals for the cost cancel excess component orders, will materially different from the actual amounts results. These differences could result materially higher than expected inventory provisions and related costs, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\' consolidated results operations and financial condition the near term. WARRANTY AND RELATED ACCRUALS The Company\' warranty and related accruals are based the Company\' best estimates product failure rates and unit costs repair. However, the Company continually releasing new and ever-more complex and technologically advanced products. result, least reasonably possible that product could released with certain unknown quality and design problems. Such occurrence could result materially higher than expected warranty and related costs, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\' consolidated results operations and financial condition the near term. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Realization approximately $ million the total deferred tax assets representing tax loss and credit carryforwards dependent the Company\' ability generate approximately $ million future . taxable income. Management believes that more likely than not that forecasted . taxable income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient utilize the tax carryforwards prior their expiration and fully recover the asset. However, there can assurance that the Company will meet its expectations future . income. result, the amount the deferred tax assets considered realizable could reduced the near and long term estimates future taxable . income are reduced. Such occurrence could materially adversely affect the Company\' consolidated results operations and financial condition. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount valuation allowance. SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS INVESTMENTS All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. September , there are investments with maturities greater than twelve months. The Company\' . corporate securities include commercial paper and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participation and certificates deposit with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments are generally held until maturity. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses reported component shareholders\' equity. These unrealized gains losses include any unrealized losses and gains interest rate contracts accounted for hedges against the available-for-sale securities. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE-SHEET RISK the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. The Company does not hold transact financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES The Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. addition, the Company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts hedge certain intercompany loan transactions. These forward contracts effectively change certain foreign currency denominated debt into . dollar denominated debt, which better matches against the Company\' . dollar denominated cash equivalents and short-term investments. such contracts existed September , . FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, and certain firmly committed and probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company\' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal . dollar value terms their historically high correlation with the . dollar. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products currencies other than the . dollar. majority these non- . dollar-based sales are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge the currency exchange risks associated with these and other transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase these foreign exchange option contracts. addition, the Company enters into other foreign exchange transactions, which are intended reduce the costs associated with its foreign exchange risk management programs. The duration foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions for probable but not firmly committed transactions, currently does not exceed one year. Interest rate and foreign exchange instruments generally qualify accounting hedges their maturity dates are the same the hedged transactions and the hedged transactions meet certain requirements. Sold interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not qualify accounting hedges. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are generally recorded currently income shareholders\' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange contracts that not qualify accounting hedges are recorded currently income. Gains and losses accounting hedges realized before the settlement date the related hedged transaction are also generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, including and when the hedged transactions longer exists, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Further information regarding the Company\' accounting treatment its financial instruments may found under the heading "Interest Rate Derivatives and Foreign Currency Instruments" included these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant, and equipment stated cost. Depreciation and amortization computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings and from two ten years for all other assets. LONG-LIVED ASSETS accordance with the provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , "Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed " ("FAS "), the Company reviews for the impairment long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Under FAS , impairment loss would recognized when estimated future cash flows expected result from the use the asset and its eventual disposition less than its carrying amount. The only such impairment losses identified the Company September , and September , were those recorded connection with the restructuring its operations. Information regarding the Company\' restructuring operations may found under the heading "Restructuring Operations" included these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION accordance with the provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("FAS "), which the Company adopted , the Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion . , "Accounting for Stock Issued Employees" ("APB ") and related interpretations accounting for its employee stock option plans. Under APB , the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals exceeds the fair value the underlying stock the date grant, compensation expense recognized. Information regarding the Company\' pro forma disclosure stock-based compensation pursuant FAS may found under the heading "Shareholders\' Equity" these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The Company translates the assets and liabilities its foreign sales subsidiaries year-end exchange rates. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged "accumulated translation adjustment" included "other" shareholders\' equity. The foreign manufacturing, distribution and certain other entities use the . dollar the functional currency and translate monetary assets and liabilities year-end exchange rates, and inventories, property, and non-monetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations are included the consolidated results operations and are immaterial. REVENUE RECOGNITION The Company recognizes revenue the time products are shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns and price protection that may occur under Company programs. Historically, actual amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied significantly from estimated amounts. WARRANTY EXPENSE The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. ADVERTISING COSTS Advertising costs are charged expense the first time the advertising takes place. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE Earnings (loss) per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding and ( only) the dilutive effect common stock options using the treasury stock method. Common stock options, the convertible subordinated notes, the preferred stock, and certain common shares issued pending shareholder approval were not included the computations loss per share and their effect was antidilutive. February , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , "Earnings Per Share" ("FAS "). Under the provisions FAS , primary earnings per share will replaced with basic earnings per share, and fully diluted earnings per share will replaced with diluted earnings per share for companies with potentially dilutive securities such outstanding options, convertible debt and preferred stock. FAS effective for annual and interim periods ending after December , and will require restatement all comparative per share amounts. The basic loss per share will different than the primary loss per share presented the accompanying consolidated statements operations neither consider outstanding options, convertible debt preferred stock. and when the Company becomes profitable, will required present both basic and diluted earnings per share. Basic earnings per share, which does not consider potentially dilutive securities, will greater than the replaced primary earnings per share which did consider those securities. Diluted earnings per share will not differ materially from the replaced fully diluted earnings per share. RECLASSIFICATIONS Certain prior year amounts the Industry Segment and Geographic Information footnote have been reclassified conform the current year\' presentation. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities amortized cost, which approximates fair value, September , and September , : AMORTIZED COST AMORTIZED COST --------------- --------------- ( MILLIONS) . Treasury securities............................................... $ $ . corporate securities.............................................. Foreign securities..................................................... , ------ ------ Total included cash and cash equivalents.......................... , , . corporate securities.............................................. -- Foreign securities..................................................... ------ ------ Total included short-term investments............................. ------ ------ Total................................................................ $ , $ , ------ ------ ------ ------ Gross unrealized gains and losses were negligible September , and September , . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and September , , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged primarily collateral support letters credit. INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES AND FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS The table below shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , , and September , . The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table below represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table below reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and sforeign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. --------------------------------------- ------------------------ NOTIONAL CREDIT RISK NOTIONAL PRINCIPAL FAIR VALUE AMOUNT PRINCIPAL FAIR VALUE ----------- ----- ------------- ----------- ----- ( MILLIONS) Transactions Qualifying Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps.......................................... $ $ ( ) $ -- $ $ ( ) Interest rate collars.......................... $ $ -- $ -- $ $ -- Purchased floors............................... $ $ ( ) $ -- $ $ Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts......................... $ $ $ $ , $ Purchased options.............................. $ $ $ $ , $ Transactions Other Than Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps.......................................... $ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts......................... $ $ -- $ $ $ -- Purchased options.............................. $ , $ $ $ $ Sold options................................... $ $ ( ) $ -- $ $ ( ) CREDIT RISK AMOUNT ------------- Transactions Qualifying Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps.......................................... $ -- Interest rate collars.......................... $ -- Purchased floors............................... $ Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts......................... $ Purchased options.............................. $ Transactions Other Than Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps.......................................... $ -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts......................... $ -- Purchased options.............................. $ Sold options................................... $ -- The interest rate swaps which qualify accounting hedges generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. result, these swaps effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate ten-year debt floating-rate debt and generally qualify for hedge accounting treatment. The maturity date for these swaps February . September , , and September , , interest rate swaps classified receive-fixed swaps had weighted average receive rate %. Weighted average pay rates these swaps were % and % September , , and September , , respectively. The unrealized gains and losses these swaps are deferred and recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The $ million interest rate swap not qualifying accounting hedge requires the Company pay Japanese yen fixed % interest rate and receive Japanese yen floating rate based month LIBOR. This swap was intended hedge against the interest rate risk related the Company\' yen- denominated notes payable banks. most the notes payable banks were not renewed, the swap longer effective hedge and therefore longer qualifies accounting hedge. Interest rate collars limit the Company\' exposure fluctuations short-term interest rates locking range interest rates. interest rate collar -cost structure that consists purchased option and sold option. The Company receives payment when the three-month LIBOR falls below predetermined levels, and makes payment when the three-month LIBOR rises above predetermined levels. Purchased floors limit the Company\' exposure falling interest rates its cash equivalents and short-term investments locking minimum interest rate. The Company receives payment when interest rates fall below predetermined level. purchased floor generally qualifies for hedge accounting treatment and reported the balance sheet its premium cost, which amortized over the life the floor. The interest rate collars and purchased floors are generally designated and effective hedges against interest rate risk the Company\' securities classified available-for-sale and are carried fair value other current liabilities with the unrealized gains and losses recorded component shareholders\' equity. Gains and losses are recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , , and September , . Sold interest rate option contracts require the Company make payments should certain interest rates either fall below rise above predetermined levels. These contracts are generally not accounted for hedges and are carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are also carried fair value other current liabilities with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. All foreign exchange forward contracts expire within one year. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts that are designated and effective hedges are recorded other current assets and amortized over the life the option. the option contract designated and effective hedge firmly committed transaction, probable but not firmly committed transaction, then any gain loss deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such contracts were immaterial September , , and September , . the option contract used hedge asset liability, then the option carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transaction. September , , maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts ranged from one twelve months. The net premium costs purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts not accounted for hedges are recorded other current assets and amortized over the life the option. The options are carried fair value other current liabilities with gains and losses recorded currently income. September , , maturity dates for sold option contracts ranged from one six months. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. NOTES PAYABLE BANKS The weighted average interest rate for Japanese yen-denominated notes payable banks September , , and September , , was approximately %. The Company had . dollar-denominated notes payable banks September , September , . The carrying amount notes payable banks approximates their fair value due their less than -day maturities. LONG-TERM DEBT During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the "Notes") certain qualified parties private placement. The Notes were sold % par. The Notes pay interest semi-annually and mature June , . The Notes are convertible their holders any time after September , conversion price $ per share subject adjustments defined the Note agreement. Notes had been converted September , . The Notes are redeemable the Company % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve-month period beginning June , , and % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve-month period beginning June , . The Notes are subordinated all present and future senior indebtedness the Company defined the Note agreement. addition, the Company incurred approximately $ million costs associated with the issuance the Notes. These costs are accounted for deduction from the face amount the Notes and are being amortized over the life the Notes. October , the Company registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") $ million the aggregate principal amount the Notes, including the related common shares issuable upon conversion these Notes. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . The carrying amounts and estimated fair values the Company\' long-term debt are follows: ---------------------- ---------------------- CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE ----------- --------- ----------- --------- ( MILLIONS) Ten-year unsecured notes........................................... $ $ $ $ Convertible subordinated notes ( )................................. $ $ $ $ Other.............................................................. $ $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) The carrying amount the convertible subordinated notes prior consideration the related issuance costs. The fair value the ten-year unsecured notes based their listed market values September , and September , . The fair value the convertible subordinated notes based estimate from financial institution. INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Interest and other income (expense), net, consisted the following: --------- --------- --------- ( MILLIONS) Interest income.................................................................. $ $ $ Interest expense................................................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss)..................................................... ( ) Net premiums and discounts foreign exchange instruments....................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Realized gains the sale available-for-sale and other securities............ Other income (expense), net...................................................... ( ) ( ) --- --- --- $ $ $ ( ) --- --- --- --- --- --- CONCENTRATIONS RISK CONCENTRATIONS CREDIT RISK The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and various education and consumer channels. Concentrations credit risk with respect trade receivables are limited because flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and because the Company\' customer base consists large numbers geographically diverse customers dispersed across several industries. such, the Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe that there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the number agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' ten-year unsecured notes. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions which mature , the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. These agreements require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds are exceeded. The amounts held margin accounts were not material September , . CONCENTRATIONS THE AVAILABLE SOURCES SUPPLY MATERIALS AND PRODUCT Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, "ASICs") are currently obtained the Company from single sources. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed, the Company\' ability ship the related product utilizing such component desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portion the Company\' CPUs and logic boards are now manufactured outsourcing partners. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules and levels, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS customer accounted for more than % the Company\' net sales , , . ADVERTISING COSTS Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. SPECIAL CHARGES NEXT ACQUISITION February , , the Company acquired all the outstanding shares NeXT Software, Inc. ("NeXT"). NeXT, headquartered Redwood City, California, had developed, marketed and supported software that enables customers implement business applications the Internet World Wide Web, intranets and enterprise-wide client server networks. The total purchase price was $ million and was comprised cash payments $ million and the issuance million shares the Company\' common stock the NeXT shareholders valued approximately $ million according the terms the purchase agreement; the issuance approximately million options purchase the Company\' common stock the NeXT optionholders valued approximately $ million; cash payments $ million the NeXT debtholders; cash payments $ million for closing and related costs, and $ million net liabilities assumed. The acquisition was accounted for purchase and, accordingly, the operating results pertaining NeXT subsequent the date acquisition have been included the Company\' consolidated operating results. The total purchase price was allocated purchased -process research and development ($ million) and goodwill and other intangible assets ($ million). The purchased -process research and development was charged operations upon acquisition, and the goodwill and other intangible assets are being amortized straight-line basis over years. The following unaudited proforma summary combines the consolidated results operations the Company and NeXT the acquisition had occurred the beginning the years ended September , and September , , after giving effect certain adjustments, including -process research and development, amortization intangible assets, lower interest income result lower cash investment balances, and lower interest expense result the settlement the NeXT debt, well related income tax effects only. The proforma summary does not necessarily reflect the results operations they would have been had the Company and NeXT been combined the beginning those years. PROFORMA RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED -------------------------------------- SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------ ------------------ ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales....................................................... $ , $ , ------- ------- ------- ------- Net loss........................................................ $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ------- ------- ------- ------- Loss per common share........................................... $ ( ) $ ( ) ------- ------- ------- ------- RESTRUCTURING OPERATIONS the second quarter , the Company announced and began implement restructuring plan aimed reducing costs and restoring profitability the Company\' operations. The restructuring plan was necessitated decreased demand for the Company\' products and the Company\' adoption new strategic direction. These actions resulted net charge $ million after subsequent adjustments recorded the fourth quarter . During , the Company announced and began implement supplemental restructuring actions meet the foregoing objectives the plan. The Company recognized $ million charge during for the estimated incremental costs those actions, including approximately $ million costs related the termination the Company\' former Chief Executive Officer. The combined restructuring actions consist terminating approximately , full-time employees, approximately , whom have been terminated from the second quarter through September , , excluding employees who were not paid severance bonuses and who were hired SCI Systems, Inc. MCI Systemhouse, the purchasers the Company\' Fountain, Colorado manufacturing facility and the Napa, California data center facility, respectively; canceling vacating certain facility leases result those employee terminations; writing down certain land, buildings and equipment sold result downsizing operations and outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling contracts for projects and technologies that are not central the Company\' core business strategy. The restructuring actions under the plan have resulted cash expenditures $ million and noncash asset write-downs $ million from the second quarter through September , . The Company expects that the remaining $ million accrued balance September , will result cash expenditures approximately $ million over the next twelve months and $ million thereafter. The Company expects that most the contemplated restructuring actions related the plan will completed during the first half fiscal and will financed through current working capital and, necessary, continued short-term borrowings. The following table depicts the restructuring activity through September , : RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITY NET BALANCE NET BALANCE ADDITIONS SPENDING SEPTEMBER , ADDITIONS SPENDING SEPTEMBER , CATEGORY DURING DURING DURING DURING - --------------------------------------- ----------- ------------- --------------- ----------- ----------- --------------- ( MILLIONS) Payments employees involuntarily terminated ( )....................... $ $ $ $ $ $ Payments canceled vacated facility leases ( ).................. Write-down operating assets sold ( )............................. Payments canceled contracts ( )..... ----- --- ----- ----- ----- ----- $ $ $ $ $ $ ----- --- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- --- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ------------------------ ( ): Cash; ( ): Noncash. TERMINATION LICENSE AGREEMENT August , the Company agreed acquire certain assets Power Computing Corporation (PCC), company which Apple had licensed distribute Macintosh operating systems. addition the acquisition certain assets such PCC\' customer database and the license distribute Macintosh operating systems, the Company also has the right retain certain key employees PCC. The agreement with PCC also includes release claims between the parties. The Company anticipates will complete its acquisition the assets PCC the first quarter once all regulatory approvals are received. The total purchase price, which comprised shares the Company\' common stock valued $ million; the Company\' forgiveness receivables from PCC; the assumption certain PCC obligations; and closing and related costs, expected approximately $ million. The total purchase price expected require total cash expenditures approximately $ million over the next months. The acquisition will treated purchase for accounting purposes. The difference between the total purchase price and the amount expensed "Termination License Agreement" the accompanying consolidated statement operations will capitalized the first quarter , and then amortized over period two years. INCOME TAXES The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists the following: --------- --------- --------- ( MILLIONS) Federal: Current............................................................. $ -- $ ( ) $ Deferred............................................................ -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- State: Current............................................................. -- ( ) Deferred............................................................ -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- Foreign: Current............................................................. -- ( ) Deferred............................................................ -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- -- ( ) --------- --------- --------- Provision (benefit) for income taxes.................................. $ -- $ ( ) $ --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- The foreign provision (benefit) for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings (loss) approximately $( ) million, $( ) million, and $ million , , and , respectively. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Except for such indefinitely reinvested earnings, the Company provides for federal and state income taxes currently undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were: SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , --------------- --------------- ( MILLIONS) Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves.................... $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves........................ Basis capital assets and investments....................... Tax losses and credits........................................ ----- ----- Total deferred tax assets..................................... Less: Valuation allowance....................................... ----- ----- Net deferred tax assets......................................... ----- ----- Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries........................... Other......................................................... ----- ----- Total deferred tax liabilities.................................. ----- ----- Net deferred tax asset.......................................... $ $ ----- ----- ----- ----- The increase net deferred tax assets $ million primarily the result reclassifying certain benefits tax losses and credits from other current assets deferred tax assets the consolidated balance sheet. September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire principally and . Most the remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. The net change the total valuation allowance was increase $ million, which net $ million adjustment related the acquisition NeXT. reconciliation the provision (benefit) for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes, follows: --------- --------- --------- ( MILLIONS) Computed expected tax (benefit)............................................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ State taxes, net federal effect............................................ ( ) ( ) Research and development tax credit........................................... -- -- ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries........................ -- -- ( ) Purchase accounting and asset acquisitions.................................... -- -- Valuation allowance........................................................... -- Other individually immaterial items........................................... --------- --------- --------- Provision (benefit) for income taxes.......................................... $ -- $ ( ) $ --------- --------- --------- Effective tax rate............................................................ % % % --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the United States Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although substantial number issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY PREFERRED STOCK August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series \' \' non-voting convertible preferred stock ("preferred stock") for $ million. Except under limited circumstances, the shares preferred stock may not sold Microsoft prior August , . Upon any sale the preferred stock Microsoft, the shares will automatically converted into shares Apple common stock conversion price $ per share and the shares can converted Microsoft\' option such price after August , . Each share preferred stock entitled receive, and when declared the Company\' Board Directors, dividend $ per share per annum, payable preference any dividend the Company\' common stock, plus, the dividends per share paid the common stock are greater than the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, then the Board Directors shall declare additional dividend such that the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, shall equal the dividends per share paid the common stock. STOCK OPTION PLANS STOCK OPTION PLAN The Company has effect Stock Option Plan (the " Plan"), which replaced the Stock Option Plan terminated October and the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan (the " Plan") terminated July . Options granted before these plans\' termination dates remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan employees, including officers and directors who are employees, not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period three years, based continued employment, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. November , the Company\' Board Directors passed resolution requiring all future option grants vested over period four years. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and stock appreciation rights. July , the Board Directors adopted resolution allowing employees exchange all (but not less than all) their existing options (vested and unvested) purchase Apple common stock (other than options granted and assumed from NeXT) for options having exercise price $ and new three year vesting period beginning July . Approximately million options were repriced under this program. May , , the Board Directors adopted resolution allowing employees and including the level Vice President exchange options their existing option price for new options having exercise price $ per share, the fair market value the Company\' common stock May , . Options received under this program are subject one year additional vesting such that the new vesting date for each vesting portion will the later May , the original vesting date plus one year. Approximately million options were exchanged and repriced under this program. December , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million. The amendment was approved the Company\' shareholders February . EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan ("the Plan"), for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Terms and conditions the Plan are substantially the same the Plan. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period three years, based continued employment, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. November , the Company\' Board Directors passed resolution requiring all future option grants vested over period four years. The Company\' Board Directors has reserved million shares for issuance under the provisions the Plan. STOCK OPTION PLAN NEXT February , , the Company acquired all the outstanding shares NeXT. Under the terms the acquisition agreement, approximately million options purchase the Company\' common stock were issued the existing NeXT optionholders. The options have the same terms and conditions the options issued NeXT. The NeXT options were granted under the NeXT Plan employees, including officers and directors who were employees, not less than the fair market value the date grant. The options become exercisable over various periods, previously determined the Board Directors NeXT the time issuance. DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved Director Stock Plan ("DSOP") for which directors the Company are eligible. Options granted under the DSOP vest three equal installments, each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. The Company\' Board Directors has reserved , shares for issuance under the provisions the DSOP. September , , , options had been granted and were outstanding under the DSOP, subject shareholder approval the Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . Supplementally and separate from the DSOP (the "Prior Plan"), , options had been granted total two members the Company\' Board Directors, and were outstanding September , . These options are also subject shareholder approval the Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for February . The options granted and available for future grant under the DSOP and Prior Plan are not included outstanding available for future grant the tables and narrative below they are subject shareholder approval. STOCK OPTION ACCOUNTING The Company has elected follow APB and related interpretations accounting for its employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under FAS requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. Pro forma information regarding net loss and loss per share required FAS and has been determined the Company had accounted for its employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases subsequent September , , under the fair value method that Statement. The fair values for these options and stock purchases were estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model for the single option approach with the following weighted-average assumptions for and : risk-free interest rate % and % for the options and stock purchases, respectively; average volatility factor the expected market price the Company\' common stock % and % for the options and stock purchases, respectively; and weighted-average expected lives three years from the grant date and six months from the beginning the plan period for the options and stock purchases, respectively. dividend payments are expected. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value traded options which have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, management\' opinion, the existing models not necessarily provide reliable single measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares are amortized pro forma net loss over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Company\' pro forma information follows: FOR THE YEARS ENDED --------------------------------------- SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------ ------------------- ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT LOSS PER SHARE INFORMATION) Net loss........................................................ $ ( , ) $ ( ) ------- ------ ------- ------ Loss per common share........................................... $ ( ) $ ( ) ------- ------ ------- ------ The value the options granted NeXT optionholders have been included the total purchase price paid for NeXT and, therefore, are not included the adjustment arrive the pro forma net loss. FAS applicable only options granted shares issued subsequent September , , its pro forma effect will not fully reflected until . summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , and September , follows: YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------------------ ------------------------------ OPTIONS WEIGHTED-AVERAGE OPTIONS WEIGHTED-AVERAGE ( \' ) EXERCISE PRICE ( \' ) EXERCISE PRICE ----------- ----------------- ----------- ----------------- Outstanding--beginning period....................... , $ , $ Granted (Price equals fair market value, the "FMV")............................................. , $ , $ Granted (Price less than FMV)........................ , $ -- $ -- Exercised............................................ ( , ) $ ( ) $ Forfeited............................................ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ----------- ------ ----------- ------ Outstanding--end period............................. , $ , $ ----------- ------ ----------- ------ ----------- ------ ----------- ------ Exercisable end period........................... , , ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- Weighted-average fair value per share options granted during the period............................ $ $ ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- The options granted price less than fair market value were existing NeXT optionholders part the total purchase price paid for NeXT. The weighted-average fair value per share options granted during the period includes the value the repriced options granted during the period less the value the related forfeited options the date the repriced options were granted. The options outstanding September , have been segregated into six ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are recorded thousands): OPTIONS OUTSTANDING ------------------------------------------- OPTIONS EXERCISABLE OPTIONS WEIGHTED ---------------------------- OUTSTANDING AVERAGE WEIGHTED OPTIONS WEIGHTED REMAINING AVERAGE EXERCISABLE AVERAGE SEPTEMBER , CONTRACTUAL EXERCISE SEPTEMBER EXERCISE LIFE YEARS PRICE , PRICE ------------- --------------- ----------- --------------- ----------- $ - $ ................................... $ $ $ - $ .................................. , $ $ $ - $ ................................. $ -- $ -- $ - $ ................................. , $ -- $ -- $ - $ ................................. , $ $ $ - $ ................................. $ $ ------ ----- $ - $ .................................. , $ , $ ------ ----- ------ ----- September , , approximately million options were reserved for future grant under the Company\' stock option plans. EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the "Purchase Plan") under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end the six-month offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. December , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Purchase Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million, which was approved the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders February . September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. SENIOR OFFICERS RESTRICTED PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN November , the Company\' Board Directors issued approximately , fully vested shares and cash settlement shares certain officers the Company under the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan (the "PSP") based upon the achievement certain performance goals established advance the Compensation Committee the Board. Immediately after these shares were issued, the Company\' Board Directors terminated the PSP. shares had been previously issued under the PSP. Supplementally and separate from the PSP, during the year ended September , the Company\' Board Directors issued approximately , fully vested shares the Company\' former Chief Executive Officer based upon the achievement certain performance goals established advance the Compensation Committee the Board. SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN May , the Company adopted shareholder rights plan and distributed dividend one right purchase one share common stock ( "Right") for each outstanding share common stock the Company. The Rights become exercisable certain limited circumstances involving potential business combination transaction the Company and are initially exercisable price $ per share. Following certain other events after the Rights have become exercisable, each Right entitles its holder purchase for $ amount common stock the Company, , certain circumstances, securities the acquiror, having then-current market value two times the exercise price the Right. The Rights are redeemable and may amended the Company\' option before they become exercisable. Until Right exercised, the holder Right, such, has rights shareholder the Company. The Rights expire April , . STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAMS November , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. Approximately million shares remain authorized for repurchase. shares were repurchased under this authorization , , . EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN The Company has employee savings plan (the "Savings Plan") that qualifies deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pretax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). Effective October , , the Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. Prior October , , the Company matched % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES LEASE COMMITMENTS The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms five ten years and generally provide renewal options for terms five additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows: ( MILLIONS) --------------- ............................................................................ $ ............................................................................ ............................................................................ ............................................................................ ............................................................................ Later years..................................................................... ----- Total minimum lease payments.................................................... $ ----- ----- PURCHASE COMMITMENTS connection with the sale its Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI"), the Company obligated purchase certain percentages its total annual volumes CPUs and logic boards from SCI over each the next two years. The Company has met these obligations through September , , and believes will meet them the future. addition, the ordinary course business, the Company has entered into agreements with vendors which obligate purchase product components which may not common the rest the personal computer industry. For discussion regarding the accruals included the consolidated balance sheets for the cost cancel excess purchase orders, refer the subheading "Significant Accounting Estimates", under the heading "Accounting Estimates" these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. LITIGATION ABRAHAM AND EVELYN KOSTICK TRUST . PETER CRISP . January , purported shareholder class action styled Abraham and Evelyn Kostick Trust . Peter Crisp . was filed the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming the Company and its then directors defendants. The complaint sought injunctive relief and damages and alleged that acts mismanagement resulted depressed price for the Company. February , the complaint was amended add former director defendant and add purported class and derivative claims based theories such breach fiduciary duty, misrepresentation, and insider trading. July , the Court sustained defendants\' demurrer and dismissed the amended complaint variety grounds and granted plaintiffs leave amend the complaint. October , the plaintiffs filed second amended complaint naming the Company\' then directors and certain former directors defendants and again alleging purported class and derivative claims, seeking injunctive relief and damages (compensatory and punitive) based theories such breach fiduciary duty, misrepresentation, and insider trading. July , the Court granted part and denied part the Company\' motion strike most the substantive allegations the second amended complaint. The Court sustained the demurrer plaintiffs\' class claims but overruled the demurrer the shareholder derivative claims. September , the Company brought motion reconsider portions the court\' order. The Third Amended Complaint was filed October , and eliminated the class action claims and restated claims against certain directors and former directors. November , the Company\' Board Directors appointed special investigation committee and engaged independent counsel assist the investigation the claims made the Third Amended Complaint. Also November , the Company filed demurrer the Third Amended Complaint. DEREK PRITCHARD . MICHAEL SPINDLER . March , purported shareholder class action was filed the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming certain current and former directors the Company defendants. The complaint sought damages and alleged that the defendants breached their fiduciary duty allegedly rejecting offer from computer company (not named the complaint) acquire the Company price excess $ per share. August , the Court sustained defendants\' demurrer and dismissed the complaint variety grounds, and granted plaintiff leave amend the complaint. October , the plaintiff filed his first amended complaint which asserted the same purported cause action the original complaint, alleged additional facts purportedly support thereof, and added the Company defendant. March , the Court sustained defendants\' demurrer without leave amend. MEN\' CLOTHING DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION FUND . MICHAEL SPINDLER . May , action was filed the California Superior Court for Alameda County naming defendants the Company and certain its current and former officers and directors. The complaint seeks compensatory and punitive damages and generally alleges that the defendants misrepresented omitted material facts about the Company\' operations and financial results, which plaintiff contends artificially inflated the price the Company\' stock. The case was transferred the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County. July , the Court sustained the Company\' demurrer dismissing the amended complaint with leave amend, after which plaintiff served second amended complaint. September , the Company and the two remaining individual defendants (former directors Markkula and Spindler) brought motion dismiss the second amended complaint. October , the Court granted the motion dismiss its entirety with leave amend certain defendants and claims. November , the plaintiff filed third amended complaint, adding former director defendant and alleging further misrepresentations the defendants about the Company\' operations and financial results. "REPETITIVE STRESS INJURY" LITIGATION The Company named approximately lawsuits, alleging that plaintiffs incurred -called "repetitive stress" injuries their upper extremities result using keyboards and mouse input devices sold the Company. These actions are similar those filed against other major suppliers personal computers. October , the Company prevailed the first full trial verdict against the Company. Since then, approximately ten lawsuits have been dismissed with prejudice the plaintiffs, and two others have been dismissed court order. The remaining actions are various stages pretrial activity. Ultimate resolution these cases may depend industry-wide progress resolving similar litigation, well resolution major questions law currently before the state appellate court New York, where majority the cases were filed. MONITOR-SIZE LITIGATION August , the Company was named, along with other entities, including computer manufacturers and computer monitor vendors, putative nationwide class action filed the California Superior Court for Orange County, styled Keith Long . . AAmazing Technologies Corp. . The complaint alleges that each the defendants engaged false misleading advertising with respect the size computer monitor screens. Also August , the Company was named the sole defendant purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Camden County, entitled Mahendri Shah . Apple Computer, Inc. Subsequently, November , the Company, along with other entities, was named purported class action alleging similar claims filed the New Jersey Superior Court for Essex County, entitled Maizes & Maizes . Apple Computer, Inc. . Similar putative class actions have been filed other California counties which the Company was not named defendant. The complaints all these cases seek restitution the form refunds product exchange, damages, punitive damages, and attorneys fees. December , the California Judicial Council ordered all the California actions, including Long, coordinated for purposes pretrial proceedings and trial before single judge, the Honorable William Cahill, sitting the County San Francisco. All the California actions were subsequently coordinated under the name Computer Monitor Litigation and master consolidated complaint filed superseding all the individual complaints those actions. July , Judge Cahill ordered all the California cases dismissed without leave amend plaintiffs residing California the ground that stipulated judgment entered September prior action brought the California Attorney General alleging the same cause action was res judicata the plaintiffs the consolidated California class action suits. This order may subject appellate review later stage the proceedings. Both the New Jersey cases and the consolidated California cases are preliminary stage, with discovery having taken place. March , the Court the case styled Computer Monitor Litigation preliminarily approved proposed settlement which the Company and all but three the other defendants the action would parties and provisionally certified nationwide settlement class with respect thereto. hearing regarding final approval the proposed settlement was held June , and the Court\' decision pending. approved, the Company does not anticipate its obligations pursuant the proposed settlement will have material adverse effect its consolidated results operations financial condition reported the accompanying financial statements. EXPONENTIAL TECHNOLOGY . APPLE Plaintiff alleges lawsuit styled Exponential Technology, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. that the Company, which was investor Exponential, breached its fiduciary duty Exponential Technology misusing confidential information about its financial situation cause Exponential fail, and that the Company fraudulently misrepresented the facts about allowing Exponential sell its processors the Company\' Mac licensees. The lawsuit filed California State Court Santa Clara County. November , the Company filed demurrer portions the complaint. OTHER August , , the Federal Trade Commission issued consent decree against the Company, regarding the Company\' past processor upgrade practices, specifically certain advertisements which the Commission deemed have misrepresented the Company\' marketing certain microprocessor upgrade products. Pursuant the order, the Company ordered cease and desist from any such allegedly misleading advertising, give notice consumers, and implement certain programs enabling consumers who are within the order\' scope obtain upgrade kits rebates, connection with any purchases within the scope the order. The Company has complied with all provisions the order currently effective, and has filed its -day compliance with the Commission October , . The Company has various other claims, lawsuits, disputes with third parties, investigations and pending actions involving allegations false misleading advertising, product defects, discrimination, infringement intellectual property rights, and breach contract and other matters against the Company and its subsidiaries incident the operation its business. The liability, any, associated with these matters not determinable. The Company believes the resolution the matters cited above will not have material adverse effect its financial condition reported the accompanying financial statements. However, depending the amount and timing any unfavorable resolution these lawsuits, possible that the Company\' future results operations cash flows could materially affected particular period. The Company operates one principal industry segment: the design, manufacture, and sale personal computing products. The Company\' products are sold primarily the business, education, home, and government markets. INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION Geographic financial information follows: --------- --------- --------- ( MILLIONS) Net sales unaffiliated customers: United States......................................................... $ , $ , $ , EMEA.................................................................. , , , Japan................................................................. , , , Asia Pacific.......................................................... Other................................................................. --------- --------- --------- Total net sales..................................................... $ , $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- Transfers between geographic areas (eliminated consolidation): United States......................................................... $ $ $ EMEA.................................................................. Japan................................................................. -- -- Asia Pacific.......................................................... , , , Other................................................................. -- -- -- --------- --------- --------- Total transfers..................................................... $ , $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- Operating income (loss): United States......................................................... $ ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( ) EMEA.................................................................. ( ) ( ) Japan................................................................. ( ) ( ) Asia Pacific.......................................................... Other................................................................. ( ) -- Eliminations.......................................................... ( ) Corporate income (expense), net......................................... ( ) --------- --------- --------- Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes........... $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- Identifiable assets: United States......................................................... $ , $ , $ , EMEA.................................................................. Japan................................................................. Asia Pacific.......................................................... Other................................................................. Eliminations.......................................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate assets...................................................... , , --------- --------- --------- Total assets........................................................ $ , $ , $ , --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- "EMEA" abbreviation for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. "Asia Pacific" does not include Japan. "Other" comprised all North and South America sites excluding the United States. Prior year amounts have been restated conform the current year\' presentation. "Net sales unaffiliated customers" based the location the customers. Transfers between geographic areas are recorded amounts generally above cost and accordance with the rules and regulations the respective governing tax authorities. Operating income (loss) geographic area consists total net sales less operating expenses, and does not include allocation general corporate expenses. The restructuring charges recorded and , and the adjustments recorded the restructuring charges recorded , are included the calculation operating income (loss) for each geographic area. Identifiable assets geographic areas are those assets used the Company\' operations each area. Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and equity securities. large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations, and majority the products sold internationally are manufactured the Company\' facilities Cork, Ireland and Singapore. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) FOURTH QUARTER THIRD QUARTER SECOND QUARTER FIRST QUARTER --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- (TABULAR AMOUNTS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin................................ $ $ $ $ Net loss.................................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Loss per common share....................... $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Price range per common share................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Net sales................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin................................ $ $ $ ( ) $ Net income (loss)........................... $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share.......................... $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cash dividends declared per common share.... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ Price range per common share................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ September , , there were , shareholders record. The Company began declaring quarterly cash dividends its common stock April . The dividend policy determined the Board Directors and dependent the Company\' earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. The Company suspended paying dividends its common stock beginning the second quarter . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per common share represents the highest and lowest prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. Net loss for the fourth quarter includes $ million charge increase the Company\' restructuring reserves, well $ million charge related the termination the license agreement with PCC. Net loss for the second quarter includes $ million restructuring charge, well $ million write-off purchased -process research and development related the Company\' acquisition NeXT Software, Inc. Net income for the fourth quarter includes adjustment the restructuring charge that increased income $ million. Net loss for the second quarter includes $ million charge for the write-down certain inventory and related actions, well $ million restructuring charge. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( MILLIONS) CHARGED ALLOWANCE FOR BEGINNING COSTS AND ENDING DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS: BALANCE EXPENSES DEDUCTIONS( ) BALANCE - ----------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------- ----------------- ----------- Year Ended September , .................................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , .................................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , .................................... $ $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information regarding directors the Registrant will set forth Proxy Statement under Regulation 14A filed the Company within days the end the fiscal year covered this report (the "Proxy Statement") under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc.--Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Registrant will set forth the Proxy Statement under the caption "Executive Officers," which information hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information regarding executive compensation will set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation," and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", and hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management will set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc.--Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", and hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions will set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation--Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", and hereby incorporated reference. PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) ITEMS FILED PART REPORT: . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . EXHIBITS The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) REPORTS FORM - Current Report Form - dated July , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press releases issued the public July , regarding the resignation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Gilbert . Amelio. Current Report Form - dated September , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press releases issued the public September , regarding the agreement acquire certain assets Power Computing Corporation. Current Report Form - dated September , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press releases issued the public September , regarding the Registrant\' naming Steve Jobs Interim Chief Executive Officer. ( ) EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Agreement and Plan Merger Among Apple Computer, Inc., Blackbird Acquisition Corporation and NeXT Software, Inc., dated December , - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through December , . - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the Indenture). - Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. Registration Rights Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through December , . ** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through December , . ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . **Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - --------------- --------------- ---------------------------------------------------------- ** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. - ** Amendment Employment Agreement, dated May , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. 96K** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ** Employment Agreement effective December , , between Registrant and John . Douglas III. ** Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan, amended through March , . ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Non-Employee Director Stock Plan. - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . **Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Fred . Anderson. ** Resignation Agreement dated September , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Jon Rubinstein. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Avie Tevanian. ** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. Computation earnings (loss) per common share. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent Auditors. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . **Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Power Attorney (included page ). Financial Data Schedule. NOTES - --------------- 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the NOTES quarter ended December , . - --------------- Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . - - , Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , - - , - , and , respectively, the Company\' Registration - - Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , . 96K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . ( ) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE See Item ( )( ) this Form - . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 4th day December . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON ----------------------------------------- Fred . Anderson EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: NAME TITLE DATE - -------------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------- Interim Chief Executive / / STEVEN . JOBS Officer and Director - -------------------------- (Principal Executive December , STEVEN . JOBS Officer) Executive Vice President and / / FRED . ANDERSON Chief Financial Officer - -------------------------- (Principal Financial December , FRED . ANDERSON Officer) / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL - -------------------------- Director December , WILLIAM . CAMPBELL / / GARETH . CHANG - -------------------------- Director December , GARETH . CHANG / / LAWRENCE . ELLISON - -------------------------- Director December , LAWRENCE . ELLISON / / EDGAR . WOOLARD, . - -------------------------- Director December , EDGAR . WOOLARD, . / / JEROME . YORK - -------------------------- Director December , JEROME . YORK ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information regarding directors the Registrant will set forth Proxy Statement under Regulation 14A filed the Company within days the end the fiscal year covered this report (the "Proxy Statement") under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc.--Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Registrant will set forth the Proxy Statement under the caption "Executive Officers," which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information regarding executive compensation will set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation," and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", and hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management will set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc.--Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", and hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions will set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation--Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", and hereby incorporated reference. PART ', 'item 14. ': 'EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) ITEMS FILED PART REPORT: . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . EXHIBITS The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) REPORTS FORM - Current Report Form - dated July , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press releases issued the public July , regarding the resignation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Gilbert . Amelio. Current Report Form - dated September , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press releases issued the public September , regarding the agreement acquire certain assets Power Computing Corporation. Current Report Form - dated September , was filed the Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission report under Item thereof the press releases issued the public September , regarding the Registrant\' naming Steve Jobs Interim Chief Executive Officer. ( ) EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Agreement and Plan Merger Among Apple Computer, Inc., Blackbird Acquisition Corporation and NeXT Software, Inc., dated December , - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through December , . - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the Indenture). - Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. Registration Rights Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through December , . ** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through December , . ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . **Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - --------------- --------------- ---------------------------------------------------------- ** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. - ** Amendment Employment Agreement, dated May , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. 96K** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ** Employment Agreement effective December , , between Registrant and John . Douglas III. ** Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan, amended through March , . ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Non-Employee Director Stock Plan. - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . **Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Fred . Anderson. ** Resignation Agreement dated September , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Jon Rubinstein. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Avie Tevanian. ** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. Computation earnings (loss) per common share. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent Auditors. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . **Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* DESCRIPTION - ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Power Attorney (included page ). Financial Data Schedule. NOTES - --------------- 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . - ------------------------ *Notes appear pages - . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the NOTES quarter ended December , . - --------------- Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . - - , Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , - - , - , and , respectively, the Company\' Registration - - Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , . 96K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . ( ) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE See Item ( )( ) this Form - . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 4th day December . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON ----------------------------------------- Fred . Anderson EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: NAME TITLE DATE - -------------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------- Interim Chief Executive / / STEVEN . JOBS Officer and Director - -------------------------- (Principal Executive December , STEVEN . JOBS Officer) Executive Vice President and / / FRED . ANDERSON Chief Financial Officer - -------------------------- (Principal Financial December , FRED . ANDERSON Officer) / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL - -------------------------- Director December , WILLIAM . CAMPBELL / / GARETH . CHANG - -------------------------- Director December , GARETH . CHANG / / LAWRENCE . ELLISON - -------------------------- Director December , LAWRENCE . ELLISON / / EDGAR . WOOLARD, . - -------------------------- Director December , EDGAR . WOOLARD, . / / JEROME . YORK - -------------------------- Director December , JEROME . YORK ', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}