{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background The Company designs, manufactures and markets smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories, and sells variety related services. The Company’ fiscal year the - -week period that ends the last Saturday September. Products iPhone iPhone ® the Company’ line smartphones based its iOS operating system. The iPhone line includes iPhone Pro, iPhone , iPhone , iPhone ® , iPhone and iPhone . Mac Mac ® the Company’ line personal computers based its macOS ® operating system. The Mac line includes laptops MacBook Air ® and MacBook Pro ® , well desktops iMac ® , Mac mini ® , Mac Studio™ and Mac Pro ® . iPad iPad ® the Company’ line multipurpose tablets based its iPadOS ® operating system. The iPad line includes iPad Pro ® , iPad Air ® , iPad and iPad mini ® . Wearables, Home and Accessories Wearables, Home and Accessories includes: • AirPods ® , the Company’ wireless headphones, including AirPods, AirPods Pro ® and AirPods Max™; • Apple ® , the Company’ media streaming and gaming device based its tvOS ® operating system, including Apple and Apple ; • Apple Watch ® , the Company’ line smartwatches based its watchOS ® operating system, including Apple Watch Ultra™, Apple Watch Series and Apple Watch ® ; and • Beats ® products, HomePod mini ® and accessories. Apple Inc. | Form - | Services Advertising The Company’ advertising services include various third-party licensing arrangements and the Company’ own advertising platforms. AppleCare The Company offers portfolio fee-based service and support products under the AppleCare ® brand. The offerings provide priority access Apple technical support, access the global Apple authorized service network for repair and replacement services, and many cases additional coverage for instances accidental damage and theft and loss, depending the country and type product. Cloud Services The Company’ cloud services store and keep customers’ content - -date and available across multiple Apple devices and Windows personal computers. Digital Content The Company operates various platforms, including the App Store ® , that allow customers discover and download applications and digital content, such books, music, video, games and podcasts. The Company also offers digital content through subscription-based services, including Apple Arcade ® , game subscription service; Apple Fitness+ , personalized fitness service; Apple Music ® , which offers users curated listening experience with -demand radio stations; Apple News+ ® , subscription news and magazine service; and Apple + ® , which offers exclusive original content and live sports. Payment Services The Company offers payment services, including Apple Card ® , -branded credit card, and Apple Pay ® , cashless payment service. Markets and Distribution The Company’ customers are primarily the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs variety indirect distribution channels, such third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. During , the Company’ net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for % and %, respectively, total net sales. Competition The markets for the Company’ products and services are highly competitive, and are characterized aggressive price competition and resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price and performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. Many the Company’ competitors seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and imitating the Company’ products and infringing its intellectual property. The Company’ ability compete successfully depends heavily ensuring the continuing and timely introduction innovative new products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. Principal competitive factors important the Company include price, product and service features (including security features), relative price and performance, product and service quality and reliability, design innovation, strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company focused expanding its market opportunities related smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories, and services. The Company faces substantial competition these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, well established hardware, software, and service offerings with large customer bases. addition, some the Company’ competitors have broader product lines, lower-priced products and larger installed base active devices. Competition has been particularly intense competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. Certain competitors have the resources, experience cost structures provide products little profit even loss. The Company’ services compete with business models that provide content users for free and use illegitimate means obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces significant competition competitors imitate the Company’ product features and applications within their products, collaborate offer integrated solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. Supply Components Although most components essential the Company’ business are generally available from multiple sources, certain components are currently obtained from single limited sources. The Company also competes for various components with other participants the markets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components; however, there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Substantially all the Company’ hardware products are manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured the . and Ireland. Research and Development Because the industries which the Company competes are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company’ ability compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability ensure continual and timely flow competitive products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company continues develop new technologies enhance existing products and services, and expand the range its offerings through research and development (“ & ”), licensing intellectual property and acquisition third-party businesses and technology. Intellectual Property The Company currently holds broad collection intellectual property rights relating certain aspects its hardware devices, accessories, software and services. This includes patents, designs, copyrights, trademarks and other forms intellectual property rights the . and various foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership such intellectual property rights important factor differentiating its business and that its success does depend part such ownership, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities its personnel. The Company regularly files patent, design, copyright and trademark applications protect innovations arising from its research, development, design and marketing, and currently pursuing thousands applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated large portfolio issued and registered intellectual property rights around the world. single intellectual property right solely responsible for protecting the Company’ products and services. The Company believes the duration its intellectual property rights adequate relative the expected lives its products and services. addition Company-owned intellectual property, many the Company’ products and services are designed include intellectual property owned third parties. may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects the Company’ products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able obtain such licenses commercially reasonable terms the past, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained the future reasonable terms all. Apple Inc. | Form - | Business Seasonality and Product Introductions The Company has historically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters its fiscal year due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost sales and operating expenses. The timing product introductions can also impact the Company’ net sales its indirect distribution channels these channels are filled with new inventory following product launch, and channel inventory older product often declines the launch newer product approaches. Net sales can also affected when consumers and distributors anticipate product introduction. Human Capital The Company believes has talented, motivated and dedicated team, and works create inclusive, safe and supportive environment for all its team members. September , , the Company had approximately , full-time equivalent employees. Workplace Practices and Policies The Company equal opportunity employer committed inclusion and diversity and providing workplace free harassment discrimination. Compensation and Benefits The Company believes that compensation should competitive and equitable, and should enable employees share the Company’ success. The Company recognizes its people are most likely thrive when they have the resources meet their needs and the time and support succeed their professional and personal lives. support this, the Company offers wide variety benefits for employees around the world and invests tools and resources that are designed support employees’ individual growth and development. Inclusion and Diversity The Company remains committed its vision build and sustain more inclusive workforce that representative the communities serves. The Company continues work increase diverse representation every level, foster inclusive culture, and support equitable pay and access opportunity for all employees. Engagement The Company believes that open and honest communication among team members, managers and leaders helps create open, collaborative work environment where everyone can contribute, grow and succeed. Team members are encouraged come their managers with questions, feedback concerns, and the Company conducts surveys that gauge employee sentiment areas like career development, manager performance and inclusivity. Health and Safety The Company committed protecting its team members everywhere operates. The Company identifies potential workplace risks order develop measures mitigate possible hazards. The Company supports employees with general safety, security and crisis management training, and putting specific programs place for those working potentially high-hazard environments. Additionally, the Company works protect the safety and security its team members, visitors and customers through its global security team. The Company has also taken additional health and safety measures during the COVID- pandemic. Available Information The Company’ Annual Reports Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the “Exchange Act”), are filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available free charge investor apple com investor-relations sec-filings default aspx when such reports are available the SEC’ website. The Company periodically provides certain information for investors its corporate website, www apple com, and its investor relations website, investor apple com. This includes press releases and other information about financial performance, information environmental, social and governance matters, and details related the Company’ annual meeting shareholders. The information contained the websites referenced this Form - not incorporated reference into this filing. Further, the Company’ references website URLs are intended inactive textual references only. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors The Company’ business, reputation, results operations, financial condition and stock price can affected number factors, whether currently known unknown, including those described below. When any one more these risks materialize from time time, the Company’ business, reputation, results operations, financial condition and stock price can materially and adversely affected. Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company’ results operations and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. This discussion risk factors contains forward-looking statements. This section should read conjunction with Part , Item , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes Part , Item , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” this Form - . Macroeconomic and Industry Risks The Company’ operations and performance depend significantly global and regional economic conditions and adverse economic conditions can materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. The Company has international operations with sales outside the . representing majority the Company’ total net sales. addition, the Company’ global supply chain large and complex and majority the Company’ supplier facilities, including manufacturing and assembly sites, are located outside the . result, the Company’ operations and performance depend significantly global and regional economic conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, slower growth recession, new increased tariffs and other barriers trade, changes fiscal and monetary policy, tighter credit, higher interest rates, high unemployment and currency fluctuations can adversely impact consumer confidence and spending and materially adversely affect demand for the Company’ products and services. addition, consumer confidence and spending can materially adversely affected response financial market volatility, negative financial news, conditions the real estate and mortgage markets, declines income asset values, energy shortages and cost increases, labor and healthcare costs and other economic factors. addition adverse impact demand for the Company’ products, uncertainty about, decline , global regional economic conditions can have significant impact the Company’ suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners. Potential effects include financial instability; inability obtain credit finance operations and purchases the Company’ products; and insolvency. downturn the economic environment can also lead increased credit and collectibility risk the Company’ trade receivables; the failure derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; limitations the Company’ ability issue new debt; reduced liquidity; and declines the fair value the Company’ financial instruments. These and other economic factors can materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations, financial condition and stock price. The Company’ business, results operations, financial condition and stock price have been adversely affected and could the future materially adversely affected the COVID- pandemic. COVID- has had, and continues have, significant impact around the world, prompting governments and businesses take unprecedented measures response. Such measures have included restrictions travel and business operations, temporary closures businesses, and quarantine and shelter- -place orders. The COVID- pandemic has times significantly curtailed global economic activity and caused significant volatility and disruption global financial markets. The COVID- pandemic and the measures taken many countries response have adversely affected and could the future materially adversely impact the Company’ business, results operations, financial condition and stock price. During the course the pandemic, certain the Company’ component suppliers and manufacturing and logistical service providers have experienced disruptions, resulting supply shortages that affected sales worldwide, and similar disruptions could occur the future. Public safety measures can also adversely impact consumer demand for the Company’ products and services affected areas. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company continues monitor the situation and take appropriate actions accordance with the recommendations and requirements relevant authorities. The extent which the COVID- pandemic may impact the Company’ operational and financial performance remains uncertain and will depend many factors outside the Company’ control, including the timing, extent, trajectory and duration the pandemic, the emergence new variants, the development, availability, distribution and effectiveness vaccines and treatments, the imposition protective public safety measures, and the impact the pandemic the global economy and demand for consumer products and services. Additional future impacts the Company may include material adverse effects demand for the Company’ products and services, the Company’ supply chain and sales and distribution channels, the Company’ ability execute its strategic plans, and the Company’ profitability and cost structure. the extent the COVID- pandemic adversely affects the Company’ business, results operations, financial condition and stock price, may also have the effect heightening many the other risks described this Part , Item this Form - . The Company’ business can impacted political events, trade and other international disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions. Political events, trade and other international disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions can harm disrupt international commerce and the global economy, and could have material adverse effect the Company and its customers, suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners. The Company has large, global business with sales outside the . representing majority the Company’ total net sales, and the Company believes that generally benefits from growth international trade. Substantially all the Company’ manufacturing performed whole part outsourcing partners located primarily Asia, including China mainland, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam. Trade policies and disputes and other international conflicts can result tariffs, sanctions and other measures that restrict international trade, and can materially adversely affect the Company’ business, particularly these measures occur regions where the Company derives significant portion its revenues and has significant supply chain operations. For example, tensions between the . and China have led series tariffs being imposed the . imports from China mainland, well other business restrictions. Tariffs increase the cost the Company’ products and the components and raw materials that into making them. These increased costs can adversely impact the gross margin that the Company earns its products. Tariffs can also make the Company’ products more expensive for customers, which could make the Company’ products less competitive and reduce consumer demand. Countries may also adopt other measures, such controls imports exports goods, technology data, that could adversely impact the Company’ operations and supply chain and limit the Company’ ability offer its products and services designed. These measures can require the Company take various actions, including changing suppliers, restructuring business relationships, and ceasing offer third-party applications its platforms. Changing the Company’ operations accordance with new changed trade restrictions can expensive, time-consuming and disruptive the Company’ operations. Such restrictions can announced with little advance notice and the Company may not able effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures. disputes and conflicts further escalate the future, actions governments response could significantly more severe and restrictive and could materially adversely affect the Company’ business. Political uncertainty surrounding trade and other international disputes could also have negative effect consumer confidence and spending, which could adversely affect the Company’ business. Many the Company’ operations and facilities, well critical business operations the Company’ suppliers and contract manufacturers, are locations that are prone earthquakes and other natural disasters. addition, such operations and facilities are subject the risk interruption fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, ransomware and other cybersecurity attacks, labor disputes, public health issues, including pandemics such the COVID- pandemic, and other events beyond the Company’ control. Global climate change resulting certain types natural disasters occurring more frequently with more intense effects. Such events can make difficult impossible for the Company manufacture and deliver products its customers, create delays and inefficiencies the Company’ supply and manufacturing chain, and result slowdowns and outages the Company’ service offerings. Following interruption its business, the Company can require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures resume operations, and lose significant sales. Because the Company relies single limited sources for the supply and manufacture many critical components, business interruption affecting such sources would exacerbate any negative consequences the Company. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ operations are also subject the risks industrial accidents its suppliers and contract manufacturers. While the Company’ suppliers are required maintain safe working environments and operations, industrial accident could occur and could result serious injuries loss life, disruption the Company’ business, and harm the Company’ reputation. Major public health issues, including pandemics such the COVID- pandemic, have adversely affected, and could the future materially adversely affect, the Company due their impact the global economy and demand for consumer products; the imposition protective public safety measures, such stringent employee travel restrictions and limitations freight services and the movement products between regions; and disruptions the Company’ supply chain and sales and distribution channels, resulting interruptions the supply current products and delays production ramps new products. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types losses, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses that may arise. Global markets for the Company’ products and services are highly competitive and subject rapid technological change, and the Company may unable compete effectively these markets. The Company’ products and services are offered highly competitive global markets characterized aggressive price competition and resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price and performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. The Company’ ability compete successfully depends heavily ensuring the continuing and timely introduction innovative new products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. result, the Company must make significant investments & . There can assurance these investments will achieve expected returns, and the Company may not able develop and market new products and services successfully. The Company currently holds significant number patents, trademarks and copyrights and has registered, and applied register, additional patents, trademarks and copyrights. contrast, many the Company’ competitors seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and imitating the Company’ products and infringing its intellectual property. Effective intellectual property protection not consistently available every country which the Company operates. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins competitors infringe the Company’ intellectual property, the Company’ ability maintain competitive advantage could materially adversely affected. The Company has minority market share the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets. The Company faces substantial competition these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, well established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships. addition, some the Company’ competitors have broader product lines, lower-priced products and larger installed base active devices. Competition has been particularly intense competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. Certain competitors have the resources, experience cost structures provide products little profit even loss. Some the markets which the Company competes have from time time experienced little growth contracted overall. Additionally, the Company faces significant competition competitors imitate the Company’ product features and applications within their products collaborate offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company also expects competition intensify competitors imitate the Company’ approach providing components seamlessly within their offerings work collaboratively offer integrated solutions. The Company’ services also face substantial competition, including from companies that have significant resources and experience and have established service offerings with large customer bases. The Company competes with business models that provide content users for free. The Company also competes with illegitimate means obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company’ business, results operations and financial condition depend substantially the Company’ ability continually improve its products and services maintain their functional and design advantages. There can assurance the Company will able continue provide products and services that compete effectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | Business Risks remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent introductions and transitions products and services. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the markets and industries which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services, and successfully manage the transition these new and upgraded products and services. The success new product and service introductions depends number factors, including timely and successful development, market acceptance, the Company’ ability manage the risks associated with production ramp- issues, the availability application software for the Company’ products, the effective management purchase commitments and inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities and expected costs meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products and services may have quality other defects deficiencies. There can assurance the Company will successfully manage future introductions and transitions products and services. The Company depends component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided outsourcing partners, many which are located outside the . Substantially all the Company’ manufacturing performed whole part outsourcing partners located primarily Asia, including China mainland, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam, and significant concentration this manufacturing currently performed small number outsourcing partners, often single locations. Changes additions the Company’ supply chain require considerable time and resources and involve significant risks and uncertainties. The Company has also outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements can lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company’ direct control over production and distribution. Such diminished control has from time time and may the future have adverse effect the quality quantity products manufactured services provided, adversely affect the Company’ flexibility respond changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for product defect expense reimbursement, the Company generally remains responsible the consumer for warranty and out- -warranty service the event product defects and experiences unanticipated product defect liabilities from time time. While the Company relies its partners adhere its supplier code conduct, violations the supplier code conduct occur from time time and can materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. The Company relies single-source outsourcing partners the ., Asia and Europe supply and manufacture many components, and outsourcing partners primarily located Asia, for final assembly substantially all the Company’ hardware products. Any failure these partners perform can have negative impact the Company’ cost supply components finished goods. addition, manufacturing logistics these locations transit final destinations can disrupted for variety reasons, including natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, commercial disputes, armed conflict, economic, business, labor, environmental, public health political issues, international trade disputes. The Company has invested manufacturing process equipment, much which held certain its outsourcing partners, and has made prepayments certain its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements. While these arrangements help ensure the supply components and finished goods, these outsourcing partners suppliers experience severe financial problems other disruptions their business, such continued supply can reduced terminated, and the recoverability manufacturing process equipment prepayments can negatively impacted. Future operating results depend upon the Company’ ability obtain components sufficient quantities commercially reasonable terms. Because the Company currently obtains certain components from single limited sources, the Company subject significant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations that can materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. For example, the global semiconductor industry experiencing high demand and shortages supply, which has adversely affected, and could materially adversely affect, the Company’ ability obtain sufficient quantities components and products commercially reasonable terms all. While the Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components, there can assurance the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Component suppliers may suffer from poor financial conditions, which can lead business failure for the supplier consolidation within particular industry, further limiting the Company’ ability obtain sufficient quantities components commercially reasonable terms all. The effects global regional economic conditions the Company’ suppliers, described “ The Company’ operations and performance depend significantly global and regional economic conditions and adverse economic conditions can materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition, ” above, can also affect the Company’ ability obtain components . Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its business, results operations and financial condition. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, can affected for any number reasons, including suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. When the Company’ supply components for new existing product has been delayed constrained, when outsourcing partner has delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition have been adversely affected and future delays constraints could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. The Company’ business and financial performance could also materially adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. The Company’ products and services may affected from time time design and manufacturing defects that could materially adversely affect the Company’ business and result harm the Company’ reputation. The Company offers complex hardware and software products and services that can affected design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those offered the Company, often have issues that can unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation hardware software products. Defects can also exist components and products the Company purchases from third parties. Component defects could make the Company’ products unsafe and create risk environmental property damage and personal injury. These risks may increase the Company’ products are introduced into specialized applications, including health. addition, the Company’ service offerings can have quality issues and from time time experience outages, service slowdowns errors. result, the Company’ services from time time have not performed anticipated and may not meet customer expectations. There can assurance the Company will able detect and fix all issues and defects the hardware, software and services offers. Failure can result widespread technical and performance issues affecting the Company’ products and services. addition, the Company can exposed product liability claims, recalls, product replacements modifications, write-offs inventory, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, and significant warranty and other expenses, including litigation costs and regulatory fines. Quality problems can also adversely affect the experience for users the Company’ products and services, and result harm the Company’ reputation, loss competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, delay new product and service introductions and lost sales. The Company exposed the risk write-downs the value its inventory and other assets, addition purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete exceed anticipated demand, for which cost exceeds net realizable value. The Company also accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders excess products and components. The Company reviews long-lived assets, including capital assets held its suppliers’ facilities and inventory prepayments, for impairment whenever events circumstances indicate the assets may not recoverable. the Company determines that impairment has occurred, records write-down equal the amount which the carrying value the asset exceeds its fair value. Although the Company believes its inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets and purchase commitments are currently recoverable, there can assurance the Company will not incur write-downs, fees, impairments and other charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the industries which the Company competes. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product announcements and shipments. Manufacturing purchase obligations cover the Company’ forecasted component and manufacturing requirements, typically for periods days. Because the Company’ markets are volatile, competitive and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order produce excess insufficient amounts components products, not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. The Company relies access third-party intellectual property, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company’ products and services are designed include intellectual property owned third parties, which requires licenses from those third parties. addition, because technological changes the industries which the Company currently competes the future may compete, current extensive patent coverage and the rapid rate issuance new patents, the Company’ products and services can unknowingly infringe existing patents intellectual property rights others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third parties. Based experience and industry practice, the Company believes licenses such third-party intellectual property can generally obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance the necessary licenses can obtained commercially reasonable terms all. Failure obtain the right use third-party intellectual property, use such intellectual property commercially reasonable terms, can preclude the Company from selling certain products services, otherwise have material adverse impact the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ future performance depends part support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions customers purchase its hardware products depend part the availability third-party software applications and services. There can assurance third-party developers will continue develop and maintain software applications and services for the Company’ products. third-party software applications and services cease developed and maintained for the Company’ products, customers may choose not buy the Company’ products. The Company believes the availability third-party software applications and services for its products depends part the developers’ perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining and upgrading such software and services for the Company’ products compared competitors’ platforms, such Android for smartphones and tablets, Windows for personal computers and tablets, and PlayStation, Nintendo and Xbox for gaming platforms. This analysis may based factors such the market position the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may generated, expected future growth product sales, and the costs developing such applications and services. The Company’ minority market share the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets can make developers less inclined develop upgrade software for the Company’ products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for competitors’ products with larger market share. When developers focus their efforts these competing platforms, the availability and quality applications for the Company’ devices can suffer. The Company relies the continued availability and development compelling and innovative software applications for its products. The Company’ products and operating systems are subject rapid technological change, and when third-party developers are unable choose not keep with this pace change, their applications can fail take advantage these changes deliver improved customer experiences and can operate incorrectly and can result dissatisfied customers. The Company distributes third-party applications for its products through the App Store. For the vast majority applications, developers keep all the revenue they generate the App Store. The Company only retains commission from sales applications and sales digital services goods within application. From time time, the Company has made changes its App Store, including actions taken response competition, market and legal conditions. The Company may make further business changes the future. New legislative initiatives, such the European Union (“ ”) Digital Markets Act, could require further changes. The Company also subject litigation and investigations relating the App Store, which have resulted changes the Company’ business practices, and may the future result further changes. These changes could include how and what extent the Company charges developers for access its platforms and manages distribution apps outside the App Store. This could reduce the volume sales, and the commission that the Company earns those sales, would decrease. the rate the commission that the Company retains such sales reduced, otherwise narrowed scope eliminated, the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition could materially adversely affected. Failure obtain create digital content that appeals the Company’ customers, make such content available commercially reasonable terms, could have material adverse impact the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. The Company contracts with numerous third parties offer their digital content customers. This includes the right sell, offer subscriptions , third-party content, well the right incorporate specific content into the Company’ own services. The licensing other distribution arrangements for this content can for relatively short time periods and not guarantee the continuation renewal these arrangements commercially reasonable terms, all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently the future may offer competing products and services, and can take actions make difficult impossible for the Company license otherwise distribute their content. Other content owners, providers distributors may seek limit the Company’ access , increase the cost , such content. The Company may unable continue offer wide variety content commercially reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules. The Company also produces its own digital content, which can costly produce due intense and increasing competition for talent, content and subscribers, and may fail appeal the Company’ customers. The COVID- pandemic has also caused additional restrictions production and increased costs for digital content. Some third-party digital content providers require the Company provide digital rights management and other security solutions. requirements change, the Company may have develop license new technology provide these solutions. There can assurance the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ success depends largely the talents and efforts its team members, the continued service and availability highly skilled employees, including key personnel, and the Company’ ability nurture its distinctive and inclusive culture. Much the Company’ future success depends the talents and efforts its team members, the continued availability and service key personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel the technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially Silicon Valley, where most the Company’ key personnel are located. addition intense competition for talent, workforce dynamics are constantly evolving. the Company does not manage changing workforce dynamics effectively, could materially adversely affect the Company’ culture, reputation and operational flexibility. The Company believes that its distinctive and inclusive culture significant driver its success. the Company unable nurture its culture, could materially adversely affect the Company’ ability recruit and retain the highly skilled employees who are critical its success, and could otherwise materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. The Company depends the performance carriers, wholesalers, retailers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products and certain its services through cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers, many which distribute products and services from competitors. The Company also sells its products and services and resells third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. Some carriers providing cellular network service for the Company’ products offer financing, installment payment plans subsidies for users’ purchases the device. There can assurance such offers will continued all the same amounts. The Company has invested and will continue invest programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers’ stores with Company employees and contractors, and improving product placement displays. These programs can require substantial investment while not assuring return incremental sales. The financial condition these resellers could weaken, these resellers could stop distributing the Company’ products, uncertainty regarding demand for some all the Company’ products could cause resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company’ products. The Company’ business and reputation are impacted information technology system failures and network disruptions. The Company and its global supply chain are exposed information technology system failures network disruptions caused natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts terrorism war, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, ransomware other cybersecurity incidents, other events disruptions. System redundancy and other continuity measures may ineffective inadequate, and the Company’ its vendors’ business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures disruptions can adversely impact the Company’ business , among other things, preventing access the Company’ online services, interfering with customer transactions impeding the manufacturing and shipping the Company’ products. These events could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. Losses unauthorized access releases confidential information, including personal information, could subject the Company significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences. The Company’ business requires use and store confidential information, including personal information, with respect the Company’ customers and employees. The Company devotes significant resources network and data security, including through the use encryption and other security measures intended protect its systems and data. But these measures cannot provide absolute security, and losses unauthorized access releases confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. The Company’ business also requires share confidential information with suppliers and other third parties. The Company relies global suppliers that are also exposed ransomware and other malicious attacks that can disrupt business operations. Although the Company takes steps secure confidential information that provided accessible third parties working the Company’ behalf, such measures are not always effective and losses unauthorized access releases confidential information occur. Such incidents and other malicious attacks could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company experiences malicious attacks and other attempts gain unauthorized access its systems regular basis. These attacks seek compromise the confidentiality, integrity availability confidential information disrupt normal business operations, and could, among other things, impair the Company’ ability attract and retain customers for its products and services, impact the Company’ stock price, materially damage commercial relationships, and expose the Company litigation government investigations, which could result penalties, fines judgments against the Company. Globally, attacks are expected continue accelerating both frequency and sophistication with increasing use actors tools and techniques that are designed circumvent controls, avoid detection, and remove obfuscate forensic evidence, all which hinders the Company’ ability identify, investigate and recover from incidents. addition, attacks against the Company and its customers can escalate during periods severe diplomatic armed conflict. Although malicious attacks perpetrated gain access confidential information, including personal information, affect many companies across various industries, the Company relatively greater risk being targeted because its high profile and the value the confidential information creates, owns, manages, stores and processes. The Company has implemented systems and processes intended secure its information technology systems and prevent unauthorized access loss sensitive data, and mitigate the impact unauthorized access, including through the use encryption and authentication technologies. with all companies, these security measures may not sufficient for all eventualities and may vulnerable hacking, ransomware attacks, employee error, malfeasance, system error, faulty password management other irregularities. For example, third parties can fraudulently induce the Company’ its vendors’ employees customers into disclosing user names, passwords other sensitive information, which can, turn, used for unauthorized access the Company’ its vendors’ systems and services. help protect customers and the Company, the Company deploys and makes available technologies like multifactor authentication, monitors its services and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which, among other things, can result the delay loss customer orders impede customer access the Company’ products and services. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that intended address certain aspects data security risks, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses all types claims that may arise. Investment new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the Company’ ongoing business, present risks not originally contemplated and materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. The Company has invested, and the future may invest, new business strategies acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management from current operations, greater-than-expected liabilities and expenses, economic, political, legal and regulatory challenges associated with operating new businesses, regions countries, inadequate return capital, potential impairment tangible and intangible assets, and significant write-offs. Investment and acquisition transactions are exposed additional risks, including failing obtain required regulatory approvals timely basis all, the imposition onerous conditions that could delay prevent the Company from completing transaction otherwise limit the Company’ ability fully realize the anticipated benefits transaction. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not successful. The failure any significant investment could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. The Company’ retail stores have required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and are subject numerous risks and uncertainties. The Company’ retail stores have required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company’ more typical retail stores. Due the high cost structure associated with the Company’ retail stores, decline sales the closure poor performance individual store multiple stores, including result protective public safety measures response the COVID- pandemic, could result significant lease termination costs, write-offs equipment and leasehold improvements and severance costs. The Company’ retail operations are subject many factors that pose risks and uncertainties and could adversely impact the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition, including macro-economic factors that could have adverse effect general retail activity. Other factors include the Company’ ability : manage costs associated with retail store construction and operation; manage relationships with existing retail partners; manage costs associated with fluctuations the value retail inventory; and obtain and renew leases quality retail locations reasonable cost. Apple Inc. | Form - | Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risks The Company’ business, results operations and financial condition could adversely impacted unfavorable results legal proceedings government investigations. The Company subject various claims, legal proceedings and government investigations that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not yet been fully resolved, and new matters may arise the future. addition, agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions which can subject the Company costs and damages the event claim against indemnified third party. The number claims, legal proceedings and government investigations involving the Company, and the alleged magnitude such claims, proceedings and government investigations, has generally increased over time and may continue increase. The Company has faced and continues face significant number patent claims relating its cellular-enabled products, and new claims may arise the future. For example, technology and other patent-holding companies frequently assert their patents and seek royalties and often enter into litigation based allegations patent infringement other violations intellectual property rights. The Company vigorously defending infringement actions courts several . jurisdictions, well internationally various countries. The plaintiffs these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless the merit particular claims, defending against litigation responding government investigations can expensive, time-consuming and disruptive the Company’ operations. recognition these considerations, the Company may enter into agreements other arrangements settle litigation and resolve such challenges. There can assurance such agreements can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. These agreements can also significantly increase the Company’ cost sales and operating expenses and require the Company change its business practices and limit the Company’ ability offer certain products and services. Except described Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Legal Proceedings” and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Commitments and Contingencies” under the heading “Contingencies,” the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss greater than recorded accrual, concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. The outcome litigation government investigations inherently uncertain. one more legal matters were resolved against the Company indemnified third party reporting period for amounts above management’ expectations, the Company’ results operations and financial condition for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Further, such outcome can result significant compensatory, punitive trebled monetary damages, disgorgement revenue profits, remedial corporate measures injunctive relief against the Company, and can require the Company change its business practices and limit the Company’ ability offer certain products and services, all which could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types claims, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses all types claims that may arise. The Company subject complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide, which exposes the Company potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects the Company’ business. The Company’ global operations are subject complex and changing laws and regulations subjects, including antitrust; privacy, data security and data localization; consumer protection; advertising, sales, billing and -commerce; financial services and technology; product liability; intellectual property ownership and infringement; digital platforms; internet, telecommunications, and mobile communications; media, television, film and digital content; availability third-party software applications and services; labor and employment; anticorruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; anti–money laundering; foreign ownership and investment; tax; and environmental, health and safety, including electronic waste, recycling, and climate change. Apple Inc. | Form - | Compliance with these laws and regulations onerous and expensive. New and changing laws and regulations can adversely affect the Company’ business increasing the Company’ costs, limiting the Company’ ability offer product, service feature customers, impacting customer demand for the Company’ products and services, and requiring changes the Company’ supply chain and its business. New and changing laws and regulations can also create uncertainty about how such laws and regulations will interpreted and applied. These risks and costs may increase the Company’ products and services are introduced into specialized applications, including health and financial services. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can assurance the Company’ employees, contractors agents will not violate such laws and regulations the Company’ policies and procedures. the Company found have violated laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. Regulatory changes and other actions that materially adversely affect the Company’ business may announced with little advance notice and the Company may not able effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures. For example, the Company subject changing regulations relating the export and import its products. Although the Company has programs, policies and procedures place that are designed satisfy regulatory requirements, there can assurance that such policies and procedures will effective preventing violation claim violation. result, the Company’ products could delayed prohibited from importation, either which could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. Expectations relating environmental, social and governance considerations expose the Company potential liabilities, increased costs, reputational harm, and other adverse effects the Company’ business. Many governments, regulators, investors, employees, customers and other stakeholders are increasingly focused environmental, social and governance considerations relating businesses, including climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, human and civil rights, and diversity, equity and inclusion. addition, the Company makes statements about its environmental, social and governance goals and initiatives through its environmental, social and governance report, its other non-financial reports, information provided its website, press statements and other communications. Responding these environmental, social and governance considerations and implementation these goals and initiatives involves risks and uncertainties, requires investments, and depends part third-party performance data that outside the Company’ control. The Company cannot guarantee that will achieve its announced environmental, social and governance goals and initiatives. addition, some stakeholders may disagree with the Company’ goals and initiatives. Any failure, perceived failure, the Company achieve its goals, further its initiatives, adhere its public statements, comply with federal, state international environmental, social and governance laws and regulations, meet evolving and varied stakeholder expectations and standards could result legal and regulatory proceedings against the Company and materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations, financial condition and stock price. The technology industry, including, some instances, the Company, subject intense media, political and regulatory scrutiny, which exposes the Company increasing regulation, government investigations, legal actions and penalties. From time time, the Company has made changes its App Store, including actions taken response competition, market and legal conditions. The Company may make further business changes the future. New legislative initiatives, such the Digital Markets Act, similar laws other jurisdictions, could require further changes. These changes could include how and what extent the Company charges developers for access its platforms and manages distribution apps outside the App Store. The Company also currently subject antitrust investigations various jurisdictions around the world, which can result legal proceedings and claims against the Company that could, individually the aggregate, have materially adverse impact the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. For example, the Company the subject investigations Europe and other jurisdictions relating App Store terms and conditions. such investigations result adverse findings against the Company, the Company could exposed significant fines and may required make changes its App Store business, all which could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. The Company also subject litigation relating the App Store, which has resulted changes the Company’ business practices, and may the future result further changes. Further, the Company has commercial relationships with other companies the technology industry that are may become subject investigations and litigation that, resolved against those other companies, could materially adversely affect the Company’ commercial relationships with those business partners and materially adversely affect the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. For example, the Company earns revenue from licensing arrangements with other companies offer their search services the Company’ platforms and apps, and certain these arrangements are currently subject government investigations and legal proceedings. Apple Inc. | Form - | There can assurance the Company’ business will not materially adversely affected, individually the aggregate, the outcomes such investigations, litigation changes laws and regulations the future. Changes the Company’ business practices comply with new laws and regulations connection with other legal proceedings could negatively impact the reputation the Company’ products for privacy and security and otherwise adversely affect the experience for users the Company’ products and services, and result harm the Company’ reputation, loss competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, and lost sales. The Company’ business subject variety . and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company subject federal, state and international laws relating the collection, use, retention, security and transfer various types personal information. many cases, these laws apply not only third-party transactions, but also restrict transfers personal information among the Company and its international subsidiaries. Several jurisdictions have passed laws this area, and additional jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions have laws that are pending. These laws continue develop and may inconsistent from jurisdiction jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing requirements causes the Company incur substantial costs and has required and may the future require the Company change its business practices. Noncompliance could result significant penalties legal liability. The Company makes statements about its use and disclosure personal information through its privacy policy, information provided its website, press statements and other privacy notices provided customers. Any failure the Company comply with these public statements with other federal, state international privacy data protection laws and regulations could result inquiries proceedings against the Company governmental entities others. addition reputational impacts, penalties could include ongoing audit requirements and significant legal liability. addition the risks generally relating the collection, use, retention, security and transfer personal information, the Company also subject specific obligations relating information considered sensitive under applicable laws, such health data, financial data and biometric data. Health data and financial data are subject additional privacy, security and breach notification requirements, and the Company subject audit governmental authorities regarding the Company’ compliance with these obligations. the Company fails adequately comply with these rules and requirements, health data financial data handled manner not permitted law under the Company’ agreements with healthcare financial institutions, the Company can subject litigation government investigations, and can liable for associated investigatory expenses, and can also incur significant fees fines. Payment card data also subject additional requirements. Under payment card rules and obligations, cardholder information potentially compromised, the Company can liable for associated investigatory expenses and can also incur significant fees fines the Company fails follow payment card industry data security standards. The Company could also experience significant increase payment card transaction costs lose the ability process payment cards fails follow payment card industry data security standards, which could materially adversely affect the Company’ business, reputation, results operations and financial condition. Financial Risks The Company expects its quarterly net sales and results operations fluctuate. The Company’ profit margins vary across its products, services, geographic segments and distribution channels. For example, the gross margins the Company’ products and services vary significantly and can change over time. The Company’ gross margins are subject volatility and downward pressure due variety factors, including: continued industry-wide global product pricing pressures and product pricing actions that the Company may take response such pressures; increased competition; the Company’ ability effectively stimulate demand for certain its products and services; compressed product life cycles; supply shortages; potential increases the cost components, outside manufacturing services, and developing, acquiring and delivering content for the Company’ services; the Company’ ability manage product quality and warranty costs effectively; shifts the mix products and services, the geographic, currency channel mix, including the extent that regulatory changes require the Company modify its product and service offerings; fluctuations foreign exchange rates; inflation and other macroeconomic pressures; and the introduction new products services, including new products services with higher cost structures. These and other factors could have materially adverse impact the Company’ results operations and financial condition. The Company has historically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters its fiscal year due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost sales and operating expenses. Further, the Company generates significant portion its net sales from single product and decline demand for that product could significantly impact quarterly net sales. The Company could also subject unexpected developments, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’ products services, issues with new product service introductions, information technology system failures network disruptions, failure one the Company’ logistics, components supply, manufacturing partners. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ financial performance subject risks associated with changes the value the . dollar relative local currencies. The Company’ primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relates non– . dollar–denominated sales, cost sales and operating expenses worldwide. Gross margins the Company’ products foreign countries and products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers could materially adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The weakening foreign currencies relative the . dollar adversely affects the . dollar value the Company’ foreign currency–denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company’ products. some circumstances, for competitive other reasons, the Company may decide not raise international pricing offset the . dollar’ strengthening, which would adversely affect the . dollar value the gross margins the Company earns foreign currency–denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening foreign currencies relative the . dollar, while generally beneficial the Company’ foreign currency–denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company reduce international pricing and incur losses its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening foreign currencies may increase the Company’ cost product components denominated those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company uses derivative instruments, such foreign currency forward and option contracts, hedge certain exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not effective offset any, more than portion, the adverse financial effects unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are place. The Company exposed credit risk and fluctuations the values its investment portfolio. The Company’ investments can negatively affected changes liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, market and economic conditions, political risk, sovereign risk, interest rate fluctuations other factors. result, the value and liquidity the Company’ cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although the Company has not realized any significant losses its cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable securities, future fluctuations their value could result significant losses and could have material adverse impact the Company’ results operations and financial condition. The Company exposed credit risk its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements, and this risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products and certain its services through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. The Company also sells its products and services directly small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. substantial majority the Company’ outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral, third-party bank support financing arrangements, credit insurance, and significant portion the Company’ trade receivables can concentrated within cellular network carriers other resellers. The Company’ exposure credit and collectibility risk its trade receivables higher certain international markets and its ability mitigate such risks may limited. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases components outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture subassemblies assemble final products for the Company. addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply inventory components. September , , the Company’ vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements were concentrated among few individual vendors located primarily Asia. While the Company has procedures monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, well long-term prepayments, there can assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company subject changes tax rates, the adoption new . international tax legislation and exposure additional tax liabilities. The Company subject taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where number the Company’ subsidiaries are organized. Due economic and political conditions, tax laws and tax rates for income taxes and other non-income taxes various jurisdictions may subject significant change. The Company’ effective tax rates are affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation deferred tax assets and liabilities, the introduction new taxes, changes tax laws their interpretation, including the . and Ireland. The application tax laws may uncertain, require significant judgment and subject differing interpretations. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company also subject the examination its tax returns and other tax matters the . Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcome resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for taxes. There can assurance the outcome these examinations. the Company’ effective tax rates were increase, particularly the . Ireland, the ultimate determination the Company’ taxes owed for amount excess amounts previously accrued, the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition could materially adversely affected. General Risks The price the Company’ stock subject volatility. The Company’ stock has experienced substantial price volatility the past and may continue the future. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock market whole have, from time time, experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices ways that may have been unrelated these companies’ operating performance. Price volatility may cause the average price which the Company repurchases its stock given period exceed the stock’ price given point time. The Company believes the price its stock should reflect expectations future growth and profitability. The Company also believes the price its stock should reflect expectations that its cash dividend will continue current levels grow, and that its current share repurchase program will fully consummated. Future dividends are subject declaration the Company’ Board Directors, and the Company’ share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. the Company fails meet expectations related future growth, profitability, dividends, share repurchases other market expectations, the price the Company’ stock may decline significantly, which could have material adverse impact investor confidence and employee retention. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company’ headquarters are located Cupertino, California. September , , the Company owned leased facilities and land for corporate functions, & , data centers, retail and other purposes locations throughout the . and various places outside the . The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment, which are used all reportable segments, are good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct its business. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings Epic Games Epic Games, Inc. (“Epic”) filed lawsuit the . District Court for the Northern District California (the “Northern California District Court”) against the Company alleging violations federal and state antitrust laws and California’ unfair competition law based upon the Company’ operation its App Store. The Company filed counterclaim for breach contract. September , , the Northern California District Court ruled favor the Company with respect nine out the ten counts included Epic’ claim, and favor the Company with respect the Company’ claims for breach contract. The Northern California District Court found that certain provisions the Company’ App Store Review Guidelines violate California’ unfair competition law and issued injunction. Epic appealed the decision. The Company filed cross-appeal and has been granted stay pending the appeal. Other Legal Proceedings The Company subject other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary course business. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company’ financial condition operating results. The outcome litigation inherently uncertain. one more legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts above management’ expectations, the Company’ financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. ', 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant’ Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The Company’ common stock traded The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbol AAPL. Holders October , , there were , shareholders record. Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September , was follows ( millions, except number shares, which are reflected thousands, and per share amounts): Periods Total Number Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Plans Programs Approximate Dollar Value Shares That May Yet Purchased Under the Plans Programs ( ) June , July , : Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , July , August , : Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , August , September , : Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , Total , $ , ( ) September , , the Company was authorized the Board Directors purchase $ billion the Company’ common stock under share repurchase program most recently announced April , (the “Program”), which $ billion had been utilized. The Program does not obligate the Company acquire minimum amount shares. Under the Program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Exchange Act. Apple Inc. | Form - | Company Stock Performance The following graph shows comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend-reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Index, the & Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index for the five years ended September , . The graph assumes $ was invested each the Company’ common stock, the & Index, the & Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index the market close September , . Past stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. * $ invested September , stock index, including reinvestment dividends. Data points are the last day each fiscal year for the Company’ common stock and September 30th for indexes. Copyright © Standard & Poor’ , division & Global. All rights reserved. Copyright © & Dow Jones Indices LLC, division & Global. All rights reserved. September September September September September September Apple Inc. $ $ $ $ $ $ & Index $ $ $ $ $ $ & Information Technology Index $ $ $ $ $ $ Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index $ $ $ $ $ $ ', 'item 6. ': '[Reserved] Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 7. ': 'Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included Part , Item this Form - . This section this Form - generally discusses and items and year- -year comparisons between and . Discussions items and year- -year comparisons between and are not included this Form - , and can found “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations” Part , Item the Company’ Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , . Fiscal Year Highlights Fiscal Highlights Total net sales increased % $ billion during compared , driven primarily higher net sales iPhone, Services and Mac. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had unfavorable year-over-year impact all Products and Services net sales during . The Company announces new product, service and software offerings various times during the year. Significant announcements during fiscal included the following: First Quarter : • Updated MacBook Pro ” and MacBook Pro ”, powered the Apple Pro Max chip; and • Third generation AirPods. Second Quarter : • Updated iPhone with technology; • All-new Mac Studio, powered the Apple Max Ultra chip; • All-new Studio Display™; and • Updated iPad Air with technology, powered the Apple chip. Third Quarter : • Updated MacBook Air and MacBook Pro ”, both powered the Apple chip; • iOS , macOS Ventura, iPadOS and watchOS , updates the Company’ operating systems; and • Apple Pay Later, buy now, pay later service. Fourth Quarter : • iPhone , iPhone Plus, iPhone Pro and iPhone Pro Max; • Second generation AirPods Pro; and • Apple Watch Series , updated Apple Watch and all-new Apple Watch Ultra. April , the Company announced increase its Program authorization from $ billion $ billion and raised its quarterly dividend from $ $ per share beginning May . During , the Company repurchased $ billion its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion. COVID- The COVID- pandemic has had, and continues have, significant impact around the world, prompting governments and businesses take unprecedented measures, such restrictions travel and business operations, temporary closures businesses, and quarantine and shelter- -place orders. The COVID- pandemic has times significantly curtailed global economic activity and caused significant volatility and disruption global financial markets. The COVID- pandemic and the measures taken many countries response have affected and could the future materially impact the Company’ business, results operations and financial condition. Certain the Company’ outsourcing partners, component suppliers and logistical service providers have experienced disruptions during the COVID- pandemic, resulting supply shortages. Similar disruptions could occur the future. Apple Inc. | Form - | Products and Services Performance The following table shows net sales category for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales category: iPhone ( ) $ , % $ , % $ , Mac ( ) , % , % , iPad ( ) , ( ) % , % , Wearables, Home and Accessories ( )( ) , % , % , Services ( ) , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , ( ) Products net sales include amortization the deferred value unspecified software upgrade rights, which are bundled the sales price the respective product. ( ) Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales include sales AirPods, Apple , Apple Watch, Beats products, HomePod mini and accessories. ( ) Services net sales include sales from the Company’ advertising, AppleCare, cloud, digital content, payment and other services. Services net sales also include amortization the deferred value services bundled the sales price certain products. iPhone iPhone net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales from the Company’ new iPhone models released since the beginning the fourth quarter . Mac Mac net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales laptops. iPad iPad net sales decreased during compared due primarily lower net sales iPad Pro. Wearables, Home and Accessories Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales Apple Watch and AirPods. Services Services net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales from advertising, cloud services and the App Store. Apple Inc. | Form - | Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company’ reportable segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company’ other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one managed separately better align with the location the Company’ customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. Further information regarding the Company’ reportable segments can found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Segment Information and Geographic Data.” The following table shows net sales reportable segment for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales reportable segment: Americas $ , % $ , % $ , Europe , % , % , Greater China , % , % , Japan , ( ) % , % , Rest Asia Pacific , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Americas Americas net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone, Services and Mac. Europe Europe net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone and Services. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had net unfavorable year-over-year impact Europe net sales during . Greater China Greater China net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone and Services. The strength the renminbi relative the . dollar had favorable year-over-year impact Greater China net sales during . Japan Japan net sales decreased during compared due the weakness the yen relative the . dollar. Rest Asia Pacific Rest Asia Pacific net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone, Mac and Services. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had unfavorable year-over-year impact Rest Asia Pacific net sales during . Apple Inc. | Form - | Gross Margin Products and Services gross margin and gross margin percentage for , and were follows (dollars millions): Gross margin: Products $ , $ , $ , Services , , , Total gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage: Products % % % Services % % % Total gross margin percentage % % % Products Gross Margin Products gross margin increased during compared due primarily different Products mix and higher Products volume, partially offset the weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar. Products gross margin percentage increased during compared due primarily different Products mix, partially offset the weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar. Services Gross Margin Services gross margin increased during compared due primarily higher Services net sales, partially offset the weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar. Services gross margin percentage increased during compared due primarily improved leverage and different Services mix, partially offset the weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar. The Company’ future gross margins can impacted variety factors, discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Risk Factors.” result, the Company believes, general, gross margins will subject volatility and downward pressure. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for , and were follows (dollars millions): Change Change Research and development $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Total operating expenses $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Research and Development The year-over-year growth & expense was driven primarily increases headcount-related expenses and engineering program costs. Selling, General and Administrative The year-over-year growth selling, general and administrative expense was driven primarily increases headcount-related expenses, advertising and professional services. Apple Inc. | Form - | Other Income/(Expense), Net Other income/(expense), net (“ & ”) for , and was follows (dollars millions): Change Change Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income/(expense), net ( ) ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ ( ) ( ) % $ ( ) % $ The decrease & during compared was due primarily higher realized losses debt securities, unfavorable fair value adjustments equity securities and higher interest expense, partially offset higher foreign exchange gains. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes, effective tax rate and statutory federal income tax rate for , and were follows (dollars millions): Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % Statutory federal income tax rate % % % The Company’ effective tax rate for was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily lower effective tax rate foreign earnings, tax benefits from share-based compensation and the impact the . federal & credit, partially offset state income taxes. The Company’ effective tax rate for was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily lower effective tax rate foreign earnings, tax benefits from share-based compensation and foreign-derived intangible income deductions. The Company’ effective tax rate for was higher compared due primarily higher effective tax rate foreign earnings, including the impact . foreign tax credits result regulatory guidance issued the . Department the Treasury , and lower tax benefits from foreign-derived intangible income deductions and share-based compensation. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes its balances cash, cash equivalents and unrestricted marketable securities, which totaled $ billion September , , along with cash generated ongoing operations and continued access debt markets, will sufficient satisfy its cash requirements and capital return program over the next months and beyond. The Company’ material cash requirements include the following contractual obligations. Debt September , , the Company had outstanding fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate principal amount $ billion (collectively the “Notes”), with $ billion payable within months. Future interest payments associated with the Notes total $ billion, with $ billion payable within months. The Company also issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant commercial paper program. September , , the Company had $ billion Commercial Paper outstanding, all which was payable within months. Leases The Company has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including corporate, data center, manufacturing and retail space. September , , the Company had fixed lease payment obligations $ billion, with $ billion payable within months. Apple Inc. | Form - | Manufacturing Purchase Obligations The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners manufacture subassemblies for the Company’ products and perform final assembly and testing finished products. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods days. September , , the Company had manufacturing purchase obligations $ billion, with $ billion payable within months. The Company’ manufacturing purchase obligations are primarily noncancelable. Other Purchase Obligations The Company’ other purchase obligations primarily consist noncancelable obligations acquire capital assets, including assets related product manufacturing, and noncancelable obligations related internet services and content creation. September , , the Company had other purchase obligations $ billion, with $ billion payable within months. Deemed Repatriation Tax Payable September , , the balance the deemed repatriation tax payable imposed the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was $ billion, with $ billion expected paid within months. addition its contractual cash requirements, the Company has capital return program authorized the Board Directors. The Program does not obligate the Company acquire minimum amount shares. September , , the Company’ quarterly cash dividend was $ per share. The Company intends increase its dividend annual basis, subject declaration the Board Directors. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and the Company’ discussion and analysis its financial condition and operating results require the Company’ management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note , “Summary Significant Accounting Policies” the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Part , Item this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company’ consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Uncertain Tax Positions The Company subject income taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The evaluation the Company’ uncertain tax positions involves significant judgment the interpretation and application GAAP and complex domestic and international tax laws, including the Act and matters related the allocation international taxation rights between countries. Although management believes the Company’ reserves are reasonable, assurance can given that the final outcome these uncertainties will not different from that which reflected the Company’ reserves. Reserves are adjusted considering changing facts and circumstances, such the closing tax examination. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management’ expectations could have material impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business, the outcomes which are inherently uncertain. The Company records liability when probable that loss has been incurred and the amount reasonably estimable, the determination which requires significant judgment. Resolution legal matters manner inconsistent with management’ expectations could have material impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and interest rate swaps, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate exposures. Given the effective horizons the Company’ risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance these positions will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. Further, the recognition the gains and losses related these instruments may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk The Company’ exposure changes interest rates relates primarily the Company’ investment portfolio and outstanding debt. While the Company exposed global interest rate fluctuations, most affected fluctuations . interest rates. Changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company’ cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value those securities, well costs associated with hedging and interest paid the Company’ debt. The Company’ investment policy and strategy are focused the preservation capital and supporting the Company’ liquidity requirements. The Company uses combination internal and external management execute its investment strategy and achieve its investment objectives. The Company typically invests highly rated securities, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. The Company’ investment policy generally requires securities investment grade and limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company’ investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , and September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ billion and $ billion incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio, respectively. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. September , , the Company had outstanding fixed-rate notes and September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate carrying amount $ billion and $ billion, respectively. The Company has entered, and the future may enter, into interest rate swaps manage interest rate risk its outstanding term debt. Interest rate swaps allow the Company effectively convert fixed-rate payments into floating-rate payments floating-rate payments into fixed-rate payments. Gains and losses term debt are generally offset the corresponding losses and gains the related hedging instrument. basis point increase market interest rates would cause interest expense the Company’ debt September , and September , increase $ million and $ million annualized basis, respectively. Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, will negatively affect the Company’ net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There risk that the Company will have adjust local currency pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments foreign subsidiaries. addition, the Company has entered, and the future may enter, into foreign currency contracts partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses its foreign currency–denominated debt issuances. The Company generally hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for months. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for variety reasons, including accounting considerations the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. Apple Inc. | Form - | provide assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company’ foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (“VAR”) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate thousands random market price paths assuming normal market conditions. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company’ foreign currency derivative positions due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence, maximum one-day loss fair value $ billion September , , compared maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, the losses fair value incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company’ investment portfolio, debt and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount changes interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and the Company’ actual exposures and positions. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and per share amounts) Years ended September , September , September , Net sales: Products $ , $ , $ , Services , , , Total net sales , , , Cost sales: Products , , , Services , , , Total cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development , , , Selling, general and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income/(expense), net ( ) Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income/(loss): Change foreign currency translation, net tax ( , ) Change unrealized gains losses derivative instruments, net tax: Change fair value derivative instruments , Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included net income ( , ) , ( , ) Total change unrealized gains losses derivative instruments , , ( , ) Change unrealized gains losses marketable debt securities, net tax: Change fair value marketable debt securities ( , ) ( ) , Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Total change unrealized gains losses marketable debt securities ( , ) ( ) , Total other comprehensive income/(loss) ( , ) Total comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and par value) September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventories , , Vendor non-trade receivables , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Non-current assets: Marketable securities , , Property, plant and equipment, net , , Other non-current assets , , Total non-current assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Other current liabilities , , Deferred revenue , , Commercial paper , , Term debt , , Total current liabilities , , Non-current liabilities: Term debt , , Other non-current liabilities , , Total non-current liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders’ equity: Common stock and additional paid- capital, $ par value: , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Retained earnings/(Accumulated deficit) ( , ) , Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) ( , ) Total shareholders’ equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY ( millions, except per share amounts) Years ended September , September , September , Total shareholders’ equity, beginning balances $ , $ , $ , Common stock and additional paid- capital: Beginning balances , , , Common stock issued , , Common stock withheld related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation , , , Ending balances , , , Retained earnings/(Accumulated deficit): Beginning balances , , , Net income , , , Dividends and dividend equivalents declared ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock withheld related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle — — ( ) Ending balances ( , ) , , Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss): Beginning balances ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle — — Ending balances ( , ) ( ) Total shareholders’ equity, ending balances $ , $ , $ , Dividends and dividend equivalents declared per share RSU $ $ $ See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, beginning balances $ , $ , $ , Operating activities: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization , , , Share-based compensation expense , , , Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) ( , ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable, net ( , ) ( , ) , Inventories , ( , ) ( ) Vendor non-trade receivables ( , ) ( , ) , Other current and non-current assets ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts payable , , ( , ) Deferred revenue , , Other current and non-current liabilities , , , Cash generated operating activities , , , Investing activities: Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities marketable securities , , , Proceeds from sales marketable securities , , , Payments for acquisition property, plant and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments made connection with business acquisitions, net ( ) ( ) ( , ) Other ( , ) ( ) ( ) Cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities: Payments for taxes related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments for dividends and dividend equivalents ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from issuance term debt, net , , , Repayments term debt ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from/(Repayments ) commercial paper, net , , ( ) Other ( ) Cash used financing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Decrease cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, ending balances $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosure: Cash paid for income taxes, net $ , $ , $ , Cash paid for interest $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note – Summary Significant Accounting Policies Basis Presentation and Preparation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (collectively “Apple” the “Company”). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior period amounts the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been reclassified conform the current period’ presentation. The Company’ fiscal year the - -week period that ends the last Saturday September. additional week included the first fiscal quarter every five six years realign the Company’ fiscal quarters with calendar quarters, which will occur the first quarter the Company’ fiscal year ending September , . The Company’ fiscal years , and spanned weeks each. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years, quarters, months and periods refer the Company’ fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters, months and periods those fiscal years. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist revenue from the sale iPhone, Mac, iPad, Services and other products. The Company recognizes revenue the amount which expects entitled when control the products services transferred its customers. Control generally transferred when the Company has present right payment and title and the significant risks and rewards ownership products services are transferred its customers. For most the Company’ Products net sales, control transfers when products are shipped. For the Company’ Services net sales, control transfers over time services are delivered. Payment for Products and Services net sales collected within short period following transfer control commencement delivery services, applicable. The Company records reductions Products net sales related future product returns, price protection and other customer incentive programs based the Company’ expectations and historical experience. For arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which represent promises within arrangement that are distinct, the Company allocates revenue all distinct performance obligations based their relative stand-alone selling prices (“SSPs”). When available, the Company uses observable prices determine SSPs. When observable prices are not available, SSPs are established that reflect the Company’ best estimates what the selling prices the performance obligations would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. The Company’ process for estimating SSPs without observable prices considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each performance obligation including, where applicable, prices charged the Company for similar offerings, market trends the pricing for similar offerings, product-specific business objectives and the estimated cost provide the performance obligation. The Company has identified three performance obligations regularly included arrangements involving the sale iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products. The first performance obligation, which represents the substantial portion the allocated sales price, the hardware and bundled software delivered the time sale. The second performance obligation the right receive certain product-related bundled services, which include iCloud ® , Siri ® and Maps. The third performance obligation the right receive, when-and- -available basis, future unspecified software upgrades relating the software bundled with each device. The Company allocates revenue and any related discounts these performance obligations based their relative SSPs. Because the Company lacks observable prices for the undelivered performance obligations, the allocation revenue based the Company’ estimated SSPs. Revenue allocated the delivered hardware and bundled software recognized when control has transferred the customer, which generally occurs when the product shipped. Revenue allocated the product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated period they are expected provided. Cost sales related delivered hardware and bundled software, including estimated warranty costs, are recognized the time sale. Costs incurred provide product-related bundled services and unspecified software upgrade rights are recognized cost sales incurred. For certain long-term service arrangements, the Company has performance obligations for services has not yet delivered. For these arrangements, the Company does not have right bill for the undelivered services. The Company has determined that any unbilled consideration relates entirely the value the undelivered services. Accordingly, the Company has not recognized revenue, and does not disclose amounts, related these undelivered services. Apple Inc. | Form - | For the sale third-party products where the Company obtains control the product before transferring the customer, the Company recognizes revenue based the gross amount billed customers. The Company considers multiple factors when determining whether obtains control third-party products, including evaluating can establish the price the product, retains inventory risk for tangible products has the responsibility for ensuring acceptability the product. For third-party applications sold through the App Store and certain digital content sold through the Company’ other digital content stores, the Company does not obtain control the product before transferring the customer. Therefore, the Company accounts for such sales net basis recognizing Services net sales only the commission retains. The Company records revenue net taxes collected from customers that are remitted governmental authorities, with the collected taxes recorded within other current liabilities until remitted the relevant government authority. Share-Based Compensation The Company generally measures share-based compensation based the closing price the Company’ common stock the date grant, and recognizes expense straight-line basis for its estimate equity awards that will ultimately vest. Further information regarding share-based compensation can found Note , “Benefit Plans.” Earnings Per Share The following table shows the computation basic and diluted earnings per share for , and (net income millions and shares thousands): Numerator: Net income $ , $ , $ , Denominator: Weighted-average basic shares outstanding , , , , , , Effect dilutive securities , , , Weighted-average diluted shares , , , , , , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ The Company applies the treasury stock method determine the dilutive effect potentially dilutive securities. Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. The Company’ investments marketable debt securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. The Company classifies its marketable debt securities either short-term long-term based each instrument’ underlying contractual maturity date. The Company’ investments marketable equity securities are classified based the nature the securities and their availability for use current operations. The cost securities sold determined using the specific identification method. Inventories Inventories are measured using the first- , first-out method. Apple Inc. | Form - | Restricted Marketable Securities The Company considers marketable securities restricted when withdrawal general use legally restricted. The Company reports restricted marketable securities current non-current marketable securities the Consolidated Balance Sheets based the classification the underlying securities. Property, Plant and Equipment Depreciation property, plant and equipment recognized straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets, which for buildings the shorter years the remaining life the building; between one and five years for machinery and equipment, including manufacturing equipment; and the shorter the lease term useful life for leasehold improvements. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from five seven years . Depreciation and amortization expense property, plant and equipment was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion during , and , respectively. Derivative Instruments and Hedging All derivative instruments are recorded the Consolidated Balance Sheets fair value. The accounting treatment for derivative gains and losses based intended use and hedge designation. Gains and losses arising from amounts that are included the assessment cash flow hedge effectiveness are initially deferred accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (“AOCI”) and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings, and the same line item the Consolidated Statements Operations. For options designated cash flow hedges, the Company excludes time value from the assessment hedge effectiveness and recognizes straight-line basis over the life the hedge the Consolidated Statements Operations line item which the hedge relates. Changes the fair value amounts excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness are recognized other comprehensive income/(loss) (“OCI”). Gains and losses arising from amounts that are included the assessment fair value hedge effectiveness are recognized the Consolidated Statements Operations line item which the hedge relates along with offsetting losses and gains related the change value the hedged item. For foreign exchange forward contracts designated fair value hedges, the Company excludes the forward carry component from the assessment hedge effectiveness and recognizes other income/(expense), net (“ & ”) straight-line basis over the life the hedge. Changes the fair value amounts excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness are recognized OCI. Gains and losses arising from changes the fair values derivative instruments that are not designated accounting hedges are recognized the Consolidated Statements Operations line items which the derivative instruments relate. The Company presents derivative assets and liabilities their gross fair values the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company classifies cash flows related derivative instruments operating activities the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows. Fair Value Measurements The fair values the Company’ money market funds and certain marketable equity securities are based quoted prices active markets for identical assets. The valuation techniques used measure the fair value the Company’ debt instruments and all other financial instruments, which generally have counterparties with high credit ratings, are based quoted market prices model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. Income Taxes The Company records certain deferred tax assets and liabilities connection with the minimum tax certain foreign earnings created the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”). Leases The Company combines and accounts for lease and nonlease components single lease component for leases corporate, data center and retail facilities. The discount rates related the Company’ lease liabilities are generally based estimates the Company’ incremental borrowing rate, the discount rates implicit the Company’ leases cannot readily determined. Apple Inc. | Form - | Segment Reporting The Company reports segment information based the “management” approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company’ reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company’ reportable segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company’ other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one managed separately better align with the location the Company’ customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. The accounting policies the various segments are the same those described elsewhere this Note , “Summary Significant Accounting Policies.” The Company evaluates the performance its reportable segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location customers and sales through the Company’ retail stores located those geographic locations. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Advertising expenses are generally included the geographic segment which the expenditures are incurred. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses managed outside the reportable segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses such research and development (“ & ”), corporate marketing expenses, certain share-based compensation expenses, income taxes, various nonrecurring charges and other separately managed general and administrative costs. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Note – Revenue Net sales disaggregated significant products and services for , and were follows ( millions): iPhone ( ) $ , $ , $ , Mac ( ) , , , iPad ( ) , , , Wearables, Home and Accessories ( )( ) , , , Services ( ) , , , Total net sales ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Products net sales include amortization the deferred value unspecified software upgrade rights, which are bundled the sales price the respective product. ( ) Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales include sales AirPods, Apple , Apple Watch, Beats products, HomePod mini and accessories. ( ) Services net sales include sales from the Company’ advertising, AppleCare, cloud, digital content, payment and other services. Services net sales also include amortization the deferred value services bundled the sales price certain products. ( ) Includes $ billion revenue recognized that was included deferred revenue September , , $ billion revenue recognized that was included deferred revenue September , , and $ billion revenue recognized that was included deferred revenue September , . The Company’ proportion net sales disaggregated revenue source was generally consistent for each reportable segment Note , “Segment Information and Geographic Data” for , and , except Greater China, where iPhone revenue represented moderately higher proportion net sales and . September , and September , , the Company had total deferred revenue $ billion and $ billion, respectively. September , , the Company expects % total deferred revenue realized less than year, % within one- -two years, % within two- -three years and % greater than three years. Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables show the Company’ cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities significant investment category September , and September , ( millions): Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Current Marketable Securities Non-Current Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , $ , $ — $ — Level ( ) : Money market funds , — — , , — — Mutual funds — ( ) — — Subtotal , — ( ) , , — Level ( ) : . Treasury securities , — ( , ) , , , . agency securities , — ( ) , — , Non- . government securities , ( , ) , — , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , — — , , — Commercial paper — — — Corporate debt securities , ( , ) , — , , Municipal securities — ( ) — Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , — ( , ) , — , Subtotal , ( , ) , , , , Total ( ) $ , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Current Marketable Securities Non-Current Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , $ , $ — $ — Level ( ) : Money market funds , — — , , — — Mutual funds ( ) — — Subtotal , ( ) , , — Level ( ) : Equity securities , — ( ) — — . Treasury securities , ( ) , , , , . agency securities , ( ) , , , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , — — , — Commercial paper , — — , , — Corporate debt securities , , ( ) , — , , Municipal securities — — Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , — , Subtotal , , ( , ) , , , , Total ( ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Level fair value estimates are based quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. ( ) Level fair value estimates are based observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. ( ) September , and September , , total marketable securities included $ billion and $ billion, respectively, that were restricted from general use, related the State Aid Decision (refer Note , “Income Taxes”) and other agreements. Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table shows the fair value the Company’ non-current marketable debt securities, contractual maturity, September , ( millions): Due after year through years $ , Due after years through years , Due after years , Total fair value $ , Derivative Instruments and Hedging The Company may use derivative instruments partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange and interest rate risk. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain exposures for variety reasons including accounting considerations the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. There can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements foreign exchange interest rates. Foreign Exchange Risk protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into forward contracts, option contracts other instruments, and may designate these instruments cash flow hedges. The Company generally hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for months. protect the Company’ foreign currency–denominated term debt marketable securities from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into forward contracts, cross-currency swaps other instruments. The Company designates these instruments either cash flow fair value hedges. September , , the maximum length time over which the Company hedging its exposure the variability future cash flows for term debt–related foreign currency transactions years. The Company may also enter into derivative instruments that are not designated accounting hedges protect gross margins from certain fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, well offset portion the foreign currency exchange gains and losses generated the remeasurement certain assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. Interest Rate Risk protect the Company’ term debt marketable securities from fluctuations interest rates, the Company may enter into interest rate swaps, options other instruments. The Company designates these instruments either cash flow fair value hedges. The notional amounts the Company’ outstanding derivative instruments September , and September , were follows ( millions): Derivative instruments designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , Interest rate contracts $ , $ , Derivative instruments not designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | The gross fair values the Company’ derivative assets and liabilities September , were follows ( millions): Fair Value Derivatives Designated Accounting Hedges Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Accounting Hedges Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , $ , Derivative liabilities ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , $ , Interest rate contracts $ , $ — $ , ( ) Derivative assets are measured using Level fair value inputs and are included other current assets and other non-current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. ( ) Derivative liabilities are measured using Level fair value inputs and are included other current liabilities and other non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The derivative assets above represent the Company’ gross credit exposure all counterparties failed perform. mitigate credit risk, the Company generally enters into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral received posted when the net fair values certain derivatives fluctuate from contractually established thresholds. further limit credit risk, the Company generally enters into master netting arrangements with the respective counterparties the Company’ derivative contracts, under which the Company allowed settle transactions with single net amount payable one party the other. September , , the potential effects these rights set-off associated with the Company’ derivative contracts, including the effects collateral, would reduction both derivative assets and derivative liabilities $ billion, resulting net derivative asset $ million. The carrying amounts the Company’ hedged items fair value hedges September , and September , were follows ( millions): Hedged assets/(liabilities): Current and non-current marketable securities $ , $ , Current and non-current term debt $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company has considerable trade receivables outstanding with its third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, resellers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral third-party credit support certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company attempts limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers requiring third-party financing, loans leases support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. September , , the Company had one customer that represented % more total trade receivables, which accounted for %. The Company’ cellular network carriers accounted for % and % total trade receivables September , and September , , respectively. Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale components these vendors who manufacture subassemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these components directly from suppliers. September , , the Company had two vendors that individually represented % more total vendor non-trade receivables, which accounted for % and %. September , , the Company had three vendors that individually represented % more total vendor non-trade receivables, which accounted for %, % and %. Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Consolidated Financial Statement Details The following tables show the Company’ consolidated financial statement details September , and September , ( millions): Property, Plant and Equipment, Net Land and buildings $ , $ , Machinery, equipment and internal-use software , , Leasehold improvements , , Gross property, plant and equipment , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Total property, plant and equipment, net $ , $ , Other Non-Current Liabilities Long-term taxes payable $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities , , Total other non-current liabilities $ , $ , Other Income/(Expense), Net The following table shows the detail & for , and ( millions): Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income/(expense), net ( ) ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ ( ) $ $ Note – Income Taxes Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rate The provision for income taxes for , and , consisted the following ( millions): Federal: Current $ , $ , $ , Deferred ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total , , , State: Current , , Deferred ( ) Total , , Foreign: Current , , , Deferred , , , Total , , , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | reconciliation the provision for income taxes the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , and ) income before provision for income taxes for , and , follows (dollars millions): Computed expected tax $ , $ , $ , State taxes, net federal effect , , Impacts the Act — ( ) Earnings foreign subsidiaries ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Foreign-derived intangible income deduction ( ) ( , ) ( ) Research and development credit, net ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Excess tax benefits from equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities September , and September , , the significant components the Company’ deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Deferred tax assets: Amortization and depreciation $ , $ , Accrued liabilities and other reserves , , Lease liabilities , , Deferred revenue , , Unrealized losses , Tax credit carryforwards , , Other , , Total deferred tax assets , , Less: Valuation allowance ( , ) ( , ) Total deferred tax assets, net , , Deferred tax liabilities: Minimum tax foreign earnings , , Right- -use assets , , Unrealized gains Other Total deferred tax liabilities , , Net deferred tax assets $ , $ , September , , the Company had $ billion foreign tax credit carryforwards Ireland and $ billion California & credit carryforwards, both which can carried forward indefinitely. valuation allowance has been recorded for the credit carryforwards and portion other temporary differences. Apple Inc. | Form - | Uncertain Tax Positions September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, which $ billion, recognized, would impact the Company’ effective tax rate. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, which $ billion, recognized, would have impacted the Company’ effective tax rate. The aggregate change the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, for , and , follows ( millions): Beginning balances $ , $ , $ , Increases related tax positions taken during prior year , Decreases related tax positions taken during prior year ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Increases related tax positions taken during the current year , , , Decreases related settlements with taxing authorities ( ) ( , ) ( ) Decreases related expiration the statute limitations ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending balances $ , $ , $ , The Company subject taxation and files income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisd ictions. Tax years after for the . federal jurisdiction, and after certain major foreign jurisdictions, remain subject examination. Although the timing resolution and closure examinations not certain, the Company believes reasonably possible that its gross unrecognized tax benefits could decrease the next months much $ billion. European Commission State Aid Decision August , , the European Commission announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid the Company providing tax opinions and concerning the tax allocation profits the Irish branches two subsidiaries the Company (the “State Aid Decision”). The State Aid Decision ordered Ireland calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the period June through December . Irish legislative changes, effective January , eliminated the application the tax opinions from that date forward. The recovery amount was calculated € billion, plus interest € billion. The Company and Ireland appealed the State Aid Decision the General Court the Court Justice the European Union (the “General Court”). July , , the General Court annulled the State Aid Decision. September , , the European Commission appealed the General Court’ decision the European Court Justice. The Company believes that any incremental Irish corporate income taxes potentially due related the State Aid Decision would creditable against . taxes, subject any foreign tax credit limitations the Act. annual basis, the Company may request approval from the Irish Minister for Finance reduce the recovery amount for certain taxes paid other countries. September , , the adjusted recovery amount was € billion, excluding interest. The adjusted recovery amount plus interest funded into escrow, where will remain restricted from general use pending the conclusion all legal proceedings. Refer the Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities section Note , “Financial Instruments” for more information. Note – Leases The Company has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including corporate, data center, manufacturing and retail space. These leases typically have original terms not exceeding years and generally contain multiyear renewal options, some which are reasonably certain exercise. Payments under the Company’ lease arrangements may fixed variable, and variable lease payments are primarily based purchases output the underlying leased assets. Lease costs associated with fixed payments the Company’ operating leases were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. Lease costs associated with variable payments the Company’ leases were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. The Company made $ billion, $ billion and $ billion fixed cash payments related operating leases , and , respectively. Noncash activities involving right- -use (“ROU”) assets obtained exchange for lease liabilities were $ billion for , $ billion for and $ billion for , including the impact adopting the Financial Accounting Standards Board’ Accounting Standards Update . - , Leases (Topic ) the first quarter . Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table shows ROU assets and lease liabilities, and the associated financial statement line items, September , and September , ( millions): Lease-Related Assets and Liabilities Financial Statement Line Items Right- -use assets: Operating leases Other non-current assets $ , $ , Finance leases Property, plant and equipment, net Total right- -use assets $ , $ , Lease liabilities: Operating leases Other current liabilities $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities , , Finance leases Other current liabilities Other non-current liabilities Total lease liabilities $ , $ , Lease liability maturities September , , are follows ( millions): Operating Leases Finance Leases Total $ , $ $ , , , , , , , , , Thereafter , , Total undiscounted liabilities , , , Less: Imputed interest ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Total lease liabilities $ , $ $ , The weighted-average remaining lease term related the Company’ lease liabilities September , and September , was years and years, respectively. The discount rate related the Company’ lease liabilities September , and September , was % and %, respectively. September , , the Company had $ billion future payments under additional leases, primarily for corporate facilities and retail space, that had not yet commenced. These leases will commence between and , with lease terms ranging from less than year years. Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Debt Commercial Paper and Repurchase Agreements The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant commercial paper program. The Company uses net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. September , and September , , the Company had $ billion and $ billion Commercial Paper outstanding, respectively, with maturities generally less than nine months . The weighted-average interest rate the Company’ Commercial Paper was % and % September , and September , , respectively. The following table provides summary cash flows associated with the issuance and maturities Commercial Paper for , and ( millions): Maturities days less: Proceeds from/(Repayments ) commercial paper, net $ , $ ( ) $ Maturities greater than days: Proceeds from commercial paper , , , Repayments commercial paper ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from/(Repayments ) commercial paper, net ( , ) , ( , ) Total proceeds from/(repayments ) commercial paper, net $ , $ , $ ( ) , the Company entered into agreements sell certain its marketable securities with promise repurchase the securities specified time and amount (“Repos”). Due the Company’ continuing involvement with the marketable securities, the Company accounted for its Repos collateralized borrowings. The Company entered into $ billion Repos during , all which had been settled September , . Term Debt The Company has outstanding fixed-rate notes with varying maturities (collectively the “Notes”). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and interest payable arrears. The following table provides summary the Company’ term debt September , and September , : Maturities (calendar year) Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate – debt issuances: Floating-rate notes $ — $ , % – % Fixed-rate % – % notes – , % – % , % – % Fourth quarter debt issuance: Fixed-rate % – % notes – , % – % — Total term debt , , Unamortized premium/(discount) and issuance costs, net ( ) ( ) Hedge accounting fair value adjustments ( , ) , Less: Current portion term debt ( , ) ( , ) Total non-current portion term debt $ , $ , manage interest rate risk certain its . dollar–denominated fixed-rate notes, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps effectively convert the fixed interest rates floating interest rates portion these notes. Additionally, manage foreign currency risk certain its foreign currency–denominated notes, the Company has entered into foreign currency swaps effectively convert these notes . dollar–denominated notes. The effective interest rates for the Notes include the interest the Notes, amortization the discount premium and, applicable, adjustments related hedging. The Company recognized $ billion, $ billion and $ billion interest expense its term debt for , and , respectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | The future principal payments for the Company’ Notes September , , are follows ( millions): $ , , , , , Thereafter , Total term debt $ , September , and September , , the fair value the Company’ Notes, based Level inputs, was $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Note – Shareholders’ Equity Share Repurchase Program During , the Company repurchased million shares its common stock for $ billion under share repurchase program authorized the Board Directors (the “Program”). The Program does not obligate the Company acquire minimum amount shares. Under the Program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Securities Exchange Act , amended. Shares Common Stock The following table shows the changes shares common stock for , and ( thousands): Common stock outstanding, beginning balances , , , , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock issued, net shares withheld for employee taxes , , , Common stock outstanding, ending balances , , , , , , Note – Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan the second quarter , shareholders approved the Apple Inc. Employee Stock Plan (the “ Plan”), which provides for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers, and permits the granting restricted stock units (“RSUs”), stock grants, performance-based awards, stock options and stock appreciation rights. RSUs granted under the Plan generally vest over four years , based continued employment, and are settled upon vesting shares the Company’ common stock one -for-one basis. RSUs granted under the Plan reduce the number shares available for grant under the plan factor two times the number RSUs granted. RSUs canceled and shares withheld satisfy tax withholding obligations increase the number shares available for grant under the Plan utilizing factor two times the number RSUs canceled shares withheld. All RSUs granted under the Plan have dividend equivalent rights (“DERs”), which entitle holders RSUs the same dividend value per share holders common stock. DERs are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the underlying RSUs. maximum approximately billion shares were authorized for issuance pursuant Plan awards the time the plan was approved March , . Employee Stock Plan The Apple Inc. Employee Stock Plan (the “ Plan”) shareholder-approved plan that provided for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers. The Plan permitted the granting substantially the same types equity awards with substantially the same terms the Plan. The Plan also permitted the granting cash bonus awards. the third quarter , the Company terminated the authority grant new awards under the Plan. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Plan The Apple Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Plan (the “Director Plan”) shareholder-approved plan that ( ) permits the Company grant awards RSUs stock options the Company’ non-employee directors, ( ) provides for automatic initial grants RSUs upon non-employee director joining the Board Directors and automatic annual grants RSUs each annual meeting shareholders, and (iii) permits the Board Directors prospectively change the value and relative mixture stock options and RSUs for the initial and annual award grants and the methodology for determining the number shares the Company’ common stock subject these grants, each case within the limits set forth the Director Plan and without further shareholder approval. RSUs granted under the Director Plan reduce the number shares available for grant under the plan factor two times the number RSUs granted. The Director Plan expires November , . All RSUs granted under the Director Plan are entitled DERs, which are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the underlying RSUs. maximum approximately million shares (split-adjusted) were authorized for issuance pursuant Director Plan awards the time the plan was last amended November , . Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “Purchase Plan”) shareholder-approved plan under which substantially all employees may voluntarily enroll purchase the Company’ common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the stock the beginning the end six-month offering periods. employee’ payroll deductions under the Purchase Plan are limited % the employee’ eligible compensation and employees may not purchase more than $ , stock during any calendar year. maximum approximately million shares (split-adjusted) were authorized for issuance under the Purchase Plan the time the plan was last amended and restated March , . ( ) Plan The Company’ ( ) Plan tax-qualified deferred compensation arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the ( ) Plan, participating . employees may contribute portion their eligible earnings, subject applicable . Internal Revenue Service and plan limits. The Company matches % % each employee’ contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee’ eligible earnings. Restricted Stock Units summary the Company’ RSU activity and related information for , and , follows: Number RSUs ( thousands) Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value Per RSU Aggregate Fair Value ( millions) Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ $ , The fair value the respective vesting dates RSUs was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. The majority RSUs that vested , and were net share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the employees’ obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld were approximately million, million and million for , and , respectively, and were based the value the RSUs their respective vesting dates determined the Company’ closing stock price. Total payments taxing authorities for employees’ tax obligations were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | Share-Based Compensation The following table shows share-based compensation expense and the related income tax benefit included the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and ( millions): Share-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefit related share-based compensation expense $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) September , , the total unrecognized compensation cost related outstanding RSUs and stock options was $ billion, which the Company expects recognize over weighted-average period years. Note – Commitments and Contingencies Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company’ business are generally available from multiple sources, certain components are currently obtained from single limited sources. The Company also competes for various components with other participants the markets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. Substantially all the Company’ hardware products are manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured the . and Ireland. Unconditional Purchase Obligations The Company has entered into certain off–balance sheet commitments that require the future purchase goods services (“unconditional purchase obligations”). The Company’ unconditional purchase obligations primarily consist payments for supplier arrangements, internet services and content creation. Future payments under noncancelable unconditional purchase obligations with remaining term excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): $ , , , , Thereafter Total $ , Contingencies The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and that have not been fully resolved. The outcome litigation inherently uncertain. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss greater than recorded accrual, concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Segment Information and Geographic Data The following table shows information reportable segment for , and ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Greater China: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Japan: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Rest Asia Pacific: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , reconciliation the Company’ segment operating income the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and follows ( millions): Segment operating income $ , $ , $ , Research and development expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other corporate expenses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , The . and China were the only countries that accounted for more than % the Company’ net sales , and . Net sales for , and and long-lived assets September , and September , were follows ( millions): Net sales: . $ , $ , $ , China ( ) , , , Other countries , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Long-lived assets: . $ , $ , China ( ) , , Other countries , , Total long-lived assets $ , $ , ( ) China includes Hong Kong and Taiwan. Long-lived assets located China consist primarily assets related product manufacturing, retail stores and related infrastructure. Apple Inc. | Form - | Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm the Shareholders and the Board Directors Apple Inc. Opinion the Financial Statements have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , and the related notes (collectively referred the “financial statements”). our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), Apple Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility Apple Inc.’ management. Our responsibility express opinion Apple Inc.’ financial statements based our audits. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect Apple Inc. accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the . Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement, whether due error fraud. Our audits included performing procedures assess the risks material misstatement the financial statements, whether due error fraud, and performing procedures that respond those risks. Such procedures included examining, test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall presentation the financial statements. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below matter arising from the current period audit the financial statements that was communicated required communicated the audit committee and that: ( ) relates accounts disclosures that are material the financial statements and ( ) involved our especially challenging, subjective, complex judgments. The communication the critical audit matter does not alter any way our opinion the financial statements, taken whole, and are not, communicating the critical audit matter below, providing separate opinion the critical audit matter the account disclosure which relates. Uncertain Tax Positions Description the Matter discussed Note the financial statements, Apple Inc. subject taxation and files income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, which $ billion, recognized, would impact Apple Inc.’ effective tax rate. accounting for uncertain tax positions, Apple Inc. uses significant judgment the interpretation and application complex domestic and international tax laws. Auditing management’ evaluation whether uncertain tax position more likely than not sustained and the measurement the benefit various tax positions can complex, involves significant judgment, and based interpretations tax laws and legal rulings. Apple Inc. | Form - | How Addressed the Matter Our Audit tested controls relating the evaluation uncertain tax positions, including controls over management’ assessment whether tax positions are more likely than not sustained, management’ process measure the benefit its tax positions, and the development the related disclosures. evaluate Apple Inc.’ assessment which tax positions are more likely than not sustained, our audit procedures included, among others, reading and evaluating management’ assumptions and analysis, and, applicable, Apple Inc.’ communications with taxing authorities, that detailed the basis and technical merits the uncertain tax positions. involved our tax subject matter resources assessing the technical merits certain Apple Inc.’ tax positions based our knowledge relevant tax laws and experience with related taxing authorities. For certain tax positions, also received external legal counsel confirmation letters and discussed the matters with external advisors and Apple Inc. tax personnel. addition, evaluated Apple Inc.’ disclosure relation these matters included Note the financial statements. / / Ernst & Young LLP have served Apple Inc.’ auditor since . San Jose, California October , Apple Inc. | Form - | Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm the Shareholders and the Board Directors Apple Inc. Opinion Internal Control Over Financial Reporting have audited Apple Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (the “COSO criteria”). our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), the consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , and the related notes and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion Apple Inc.’ management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management’ Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion Apple Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting based our audit. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect Apple Inc. accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the . Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations Internal Control Over Financial Reporting company’ internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company’ management, the Company’ principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company’ disclosure controls and procedures defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Exchange Act were effective September , provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the SEC rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company’ management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations over Internal Controls The Company’ internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The Company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company’ assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP, and that the Company’ receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company’ management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company’ Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company’ internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management’ Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting The Company’ management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted assessment the effectiveness the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework). Based the Company’ assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective September , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP. The Company’ independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report the Company’ internal control over financial reporting, which appears Part , Item this Form - . Changes Internal Control over Financial Reporting There were changes the Company’ internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter , which were identified connection with management’ evaluation required paragraph ( ) Rules 13a- and 15d- under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company’ internal control over financial reporting. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information Rule 10b5- Trading Plans During the three months ended September , , Katherine . Adams, Timothy . Cook, Luca Maestri, Deirdre ’Brien and Jeffrey Williams, each officer for purposes Section the Exchange Act, had equity trading plans place accordance with Rule 10b5- ( )( ) under the Exchange Act. equity trading plan written document that preestablishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company’ stock, including sales shares acquired under the Company’ employee and director equity plans. ', 'item 9c. ': 'Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this Item will included the Company’ definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC within days after September , , connection with the solicitation proxies for the Company’ annual meeting shareholders (the “ Proxy Statement”), and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this Item will included the Proxy Statement, and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this Item will included the Proxy Statement, and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this Item will included the Proxy Statement, and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services The information required this Item will included the Proxy Statement, and incorporated herein reference. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules ( ) Documents filed part this report ( ) All financial statements Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page * Ernst & Young LLP, PCAOB Firm . . ( ) Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included this Form - . ( ) Exhibits required Item Regulation - ( ) Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date - - ** - - - - - - - - Apple Inc. | Form - | Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Apple Inc. | Form - | Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - ** ** ** ** ** *** ** Inline XBRL Document Set for the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes Part , Item , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” this Annual Report Form - . ** Inline XBRL for the cover page this Annual Report Form - , included the Exhibit Inline XBRL Document Set. * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ** Filed herewith. *** Furnished herewith. ( ) Certain instruments defining the rights holders long-term debt securities the Registrant are omitted pursuant Item ( )( )(iii) Regulation - . The Registrant hereby undertakes furnish the SEC, upon request, copies any such instruments. ', 'item 16. ': 'Form - Summary None. Apple Inc. | Form - | '}