{'item 1. ': "BUSINESS GENERAL Embracing Our Future Microsoft technology company whose mission empower every person and every organization the planet achieve more. strive create local opportunity, growth, and impact every country around the world. Our platforms and tools help drive small business productivity, large business competitiveness, and public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity. the world responds the outbreak novel strain the coronavirus (“COVID- ”), are working our part ensuring the safety our employees, striving protect the health and well-being the communities which operate, and providing technology and resources our customers help them their best work while remote. continue transform our business lead the new era the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge. bring technology and products together into experiences and solutions that unlock value for our customers. Our unique role platform and tools provider allows connect the dots, bring together ecosystem partners, and enable organizations all sizes build the digital capability required address these challenges. this next phase innovation, computing more powerful and ubiquitous from the cloud the edge. Artificial intelligence (“ ”) capabilities are rapidly advancing, fueled data and knowledge the world. Physical and virtual worlds are coming together with the Internet Things (“IoT”) and mixed reality create richer experiences that understand the context surrounding people, the things they use, the places they , and their activities and relationships. person’ experience with technology spans multitude devices and has become increasingly more natural and multi-sensory with voice, ink, and gaze interactions. What Offer Founded , develop and support software, services, devices, and solutions that deliver new value for customers and help people and businesses realize their full potential. offer array services, including cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content, and provide solution support and consulting services. also deliver relevant online advertising global audience. Our products include operating systems; cross-device productivity applications; server applications; business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; and video games. also design, manufacture, and sell devices, including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories. PART Item The Ambitions That Drive achieve our vision, our research and development efforts focus three interconnected ambitions: • Reinvent productivity and business processes. • Build the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge platform. • Create more personal computing. Reinvent Productivity and Business Processes Microsoft, ’ providing technology and resources help our customers navigate remote environment. ’ seeing our family products play key roles the ways the world continuing work, learn, and connect. Our growth depends securely delivering continuous innovation and advancing our leading productivity and collaboration tools and services, including Office, Dynamics, and LinkedIn. Microsoft brings together Office , Windows , and Enterprise Mobility + Security help organizations empower their employees with -backed tools that unlock creativity, increase teamwork, and fuel innovation, all the while enabling compliance coverage and data protection. Microsoft Teams enabling rapid digital transformation giving people single tool chat, call, meet, and collaborate. Microsoft Relationship Sales solution brings together LinkedIn Sales Navigator and Dynamics transform business business sales through social selling. Dynamics for Talent with LinkedIn Recruiter and Learning gives human resource professionals complete solution compete for talent. Microsoft Power Platform empowers employees build custom applications, automate workflow, and analyze data matter their technical expertise. These scenarios represent move unlock creativity and discover new habits, while simplifying security and management. Organizations all sizes have digitized business-critical functions, redefining what they can expect from their business applications. This creates opportunity reach new customers and increase usage and engagement with existing customers. Build the Intelligent Cloud and Intelligent Edge Platform the new remote world, companies have accelerated their own digital transformation empower their employees, optimize their operations, engage customers, and some cases, change the very core their products and services. Partnering with organizations their digital transformation during this period one our largest opportunities and are uniquely positioned become the strategic digital transformation platform and partner choice; their success our success. Our strategy requires continued investment datacenters and other hybrid and edge infrastructure support our services. Azure trusted cloud with comprehensive compliance coverage and -based security built . Our cloud business benefits from three economies scale: datacenters that deploy computational resources significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; datacenters that coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns, improving the utilization computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy locations that lower application maintenance labor costs. one the two largest providers cloud computing scale, believe work from position strength. Being global-scale cloud, Azure uniquely offers hybrid consistency, developer productivity, capabilities, and trusted security and compliance. see more emerging use cases and needs for compute and security the edge and are accelerating our innovation across the spectrum intelligent edge devices, from IoT sensors gateway devices and edge hardware build, manage, and secure edge workloads. With Azure Stack, organizations can extend Azure into their own datacenters create consistent stack across the public cloud and the intelligent edge. Our hybrid infrastructure consistency spans identity, data, compute, management, and security, helping support the real-world needs and evolving regulatory requirements commercial customers and enterprises. are accelerating our development mixed reality solutions with new Azure services and devices. The opportunity merge the physical and digital worlds, when combined with the power Azure cloud services, unlocks the potential for entirely new workloads which believe will shape the next era computing. PART Item The ability convert data into drives our competitive advantage. Azure SQL Database makes possible for customers take SQL Server from their -premises datacenter fully managed instance the cloud utilize built- . are accelerating adoption innovations from research products. Our innovation helps every developer developer, with approachable new tools from Azure Machine Learning Studio for creating simple machine learning models, the powerful Azure Machine Learning Workbench for the most advanced modeling and data science. Create More Personal Computing strive make computing more personal putting users the core the experience, enabling them interact with technology more intuitive, engaging, and dynamic ways. support this, are bringing Office, Windows, and devices together for enhanced and more cohesive customer experience. Windows serves the enterprise the most secure and productive operating system. empowers people with -first interfaces ranging from voice-activated commands through Cortana, inking, immersive content storytelling, and mixed reality experiences. Our ambition for Windows monetization opportunities includes gaming, services, subscriptions, and search advertising. Windows also plays critical role fueling our cloud business and Microsoft strategy, and powers the growing range devices the “intelligent edge.” are committed designing and marketing first-party devices help drive innovation, create new device categories, and stimulate demand the Windows ecosystem. recently added several new products and accessories into the Surface family, including Surface Book and Surface . These new Surface products join Surface Pro , Surface Laptop , and Surface Pro . expand usage and deepen engagement, continue invest content, community, and cloud services pursue the expansive opportunity the gaming industry. are broadening our approach how think about gaming end- -end, from the way games are created and distributed how they are played and viewed across , console, and mobile. have strong position with our large and growing highly engaged community gamers. Xbox Game Pass, with over million members from countries, community with access curated library over first- and third-party console and titles. Project xCloud Microsoft’ game streaming technology that complementary our console hardware and will give fans the ultimate choice play the games they want, with the people they want, the devices they want. Our Future Opportunity time great disruption and uncertainty, customers are looking accelerate their own digital transformations software and cloud computing play huge role across every industry and around the world. continue develop complete, intelligent solutions for our customers that empower people stay productive and collaborate, while safeguarding businesses and simplifying management. Our goal lead the industry several distinct areas technology over the long-term, which expect will translate sustained growth. are investing significant resources : • Transforming the workplace deliver new modern, modular business applications improve how people communicate, collaborate, learn, work, play, and interact with one another. • Building and running cloud-based services ways that unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals. • Applying drive insights and act our customer’ behalf understanding and interpreting their needs using natural methods communication. • Using Windows fuel our cloud business and Microsoft strategy, and develop new categories devices – both our own and third-party – the intelligent edge. • Inventing new gaming experiences that bring people together around their shared love for games any devices and pushing the boundaries innovation with console and gaming creating the next wave entertainment. Our future growth depends our ability transcend current product category definitions, business models, and sales motions. have the opportunity redefine what customers and partners can expect and are working deliver new solutions that reflect the best Microsoft. PART Item COVID- March , the World Health Organization declared the outbreak COVID- pandemic. The COVID- pandemic having widespread, rapidly evolving, and unpredictable impacts global society, economies, financial markets, and business practices. Federal and state governments have implemented measures effort contain the virus, including social distancing, travel restrictions, border closures, limitations public gatherings, work from home, supply chain logistical changes, and closure non-essential businesses. protect the health and well-being our employees, suppliers, and customers, have made substantial modifications employee travel policies, implemented office closures employees are advised work from home, and cancelled shifted our conferences and other marketing events virtual-only through fiscal year . The COVID- pandemic has impacted and may continue impact our business operations, including our employees, customers, partners, and communities, and there substantial uncertainty the nature and degree its continued effects over time. Refer Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations (Part , Item this Form - ) for further discussion regarding the impact COVID- our fiscal year financial results. The extent which the COVID- pandemic impacts our business going forward will depend numerous evolving factors cannot reliably predict, including the duration and scope the pandemic; governmental, business, and individuals' actions response the pandemic; and the impact economic activity including the possibility recession financial market instability. These factors may adversely impact consumer, business, and government spending technology well customers' ability pay for our products and services ongoing basis. This uncertainty also affects management’ accounting estimates and assumptions, which could result greater variability variety areas that depend these estimates and assumptions, including investments, receivables, and forward-looking guidance. Refer Risk Factors (Part , Item this Form - ) for discussion these factors and other risks. Commitment Sustainability work ensure that technology inclusive, trusted, and increases sustainability. ’ empowering our customers and partners with new technology help them drive efficiencies, transform their businesses, and create their own solutions for sustainability. January , announced bold new environmental sustainability strategy focused carbon, water, waste, and ecosystems. part our commitment, are investing $ billion over the next four years new technologies and innovative climate solutions. set ambitious goal reduce and ultimately remove Microsoft’ carbon footprint. Microsoft will carbon negative, and Microsoft will remove from the environment all the carbon the company has emitted directly electrical consumption since was founded . also launched new initiative use Microsoft technology help our suppliers and customers around the world reduce their own carbon footprint. The investments make sustainability carry through our products, services, and devices. design our devices, from Surface Xbox, minimize their impact the environment. Our cloud and services help businesses cut energy consumption, reduce physical footprints, and design sustainable products. also pledged $ million investment for Earth accelerate innovation putting the hands those working directly address sustainability challenges. Lastly, this work supported using our voice support policies think can advance sustainability efforts. Addressing Racial Injustice Our future opportunity depends reaching and empowering all communities, and are committed taking action help address racial injustice and inequity. With significant input from employees and leaders who are members the Black and African American community, our senior leadership team and board directors has developed set actions help improve the lived experience Microsoft and drive change the communities which live and work. These efforts include increasing our representation and culture inclusion doubling the number Black and African American people managers, senior individual contributors, and senior leaders the United States ; engaging our ecosystem using our balance sheet and engagement with suppliers and partners extend the vision for societal change; and strengthening our communities using the power data, technology, and partnership help improve the lives Black and African American citizens across the United States. PART Item Investing Digital Skills With continued focus digital transformation, Microsoft making efforts help ensure that one left behind, particularly economies start recover from the COVID- pandemic. are expanding access the digital skills that have become increasingly vital many the world’ jobs, and especially individuals hardest hit recent job losses, including those with lower incomes, women, and underrepresented minorities. Our skills initiative brings together learning resources, certification opportunities, and job-seeker tools from LinkedIn, GitHub, and Microsoft Learn, and built data insights drawn from LinkedIn’ Economic Graph. This combined with $ million are investing key non-profit partnerships through Microsoft Philanthropies. OPERATING SEGMENTS operate our business and report our financial performance using three segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. Our segments provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide framework for timely and rational allocation resources within businesses. Additional information our operating segments and geographic and product information contained Note – Segment Information and Geographic Data the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). Our reportable segments are described below. Productivity and Business Processes Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists products and services our portfolio productivity, communication, and information services, spanning variety devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises: • Office Commercial, including Office subscriptions, the Office portion Microsoft Commercial subscriptions, and Office licensed -premises, comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office Security and Compliance, and Skype for Business, and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”). • Office Consumer, including Microsoft Consumer (formerly Office Consumer) subscriptions and Office licensed -premises, and Office Consumer Services, including Skype, Outlook com, and OneDrive. • LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Learning Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Sales Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions. • Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics , set cloud-based applications across ERP and CRM, Dynamics ERP -premises, and Dynamics CRM -premises. Office Commercial Office Commercial designed increase personal, team, and organizational productivity through range products and services. Growth depends our ability reach new users new markets such first-line workers, small and medium businesses, and growth markets, well add value our core product and service offerings span productivity categories such communication, collaboration, analytics, security, and compliance. Office Commercial revenue mainly affected combination continued installed base growth and average revenue per user expansion, well the continued shift from Office licensed -premises Office . CALs provide certain Office Commercial products and services with access rights our server products and CAL revenue reported with the associated Office products and services. PART Item Office Consumer Office Consumer designed increase personal productivity through range products and services. Growth depends our ability reach new users, add value our core product set, and continue expand our product and service offerings into new markets. Office Consumer revenue mainly affected the percentage customers that buy Office with their new devices and the continued shift from Office licensed -premises Microsoft Consumer subscriptions. Office Consumer Services revenue mainly affected the demand for communication and storage through Skype, Outlook com, and OneDrive, which largely driven subscriptions, advertising, and the sale minutes. LinkedIn LinkedIn connects the world’ professionals make them more productive and successful and transforms the way companies hire, market, sell, and learn. Our vision create economic opportunity for every member the global workforce through the ongoing development the world’ first Economic Graph, digital representation the global economy. addition LinkedIn’ free services, LinkedIn offers monetized solutions: Talent Solutions, Learning Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Sales Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions. Talent Solutions provide insights for workforce planning and tools hire, nurture, and develop talent. Learning Solutions, including Glint, help businesses close critical skills gaps times where companies are having more with existing talent. Marketing Solutions help companies grow relationships between businesses. Sales Solutions help companies strengthen customer relationships, empower teams with digital selling tools, and acquire new opportunities. Finally, Premium Subscriptions enables professionals manage their professional identity, grow their network, and connect with talent through additional services like premium search. LinkedIn has over million members and has offices around the globe. Growth will depend our ability increase the number LinkedIn members and our ability continue offering services that provide value for our members and increase their engagement. LinkedIn revenue mainly affected demand from enterprises and professional organizations for subscriptions Talent Solutions , Learning Solutions, Sales Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions offerings, well member engagement and the quality the sponsored content delivered those members drive Marketing Solutions. Dynamics Dynamics provides cloud-based and -premises business solutions for financial management, enterprise resource planning (“ERP”), customer relationship management (“CRM”), supply chain management, and other application development platforms for small and medium businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. Dynamics revenue driven the number users licensed, expansion average revenue per user, and the continued shift Dynamics , unified set cloud-based intelligent business applications. Competition Competitors Office include software and global application vendors, such Apple, Cisco Systems, Facebook, Google, IBM, Okta, Proofpoint, Slack, Symantec, Zoom, and numerous web-based and mobile application competitors well local application developers. Apple distributes versions its pre-installed application software, such email and calendar products, through its PCs, tablets, and phones. Cisco Systems using its position enterprise communications equipment grow its unified communications business. Google provides hosted messaging and productivity suite. Slack provides teamwork and collaboration software. Zoom offers videoconferencing and cloud phone solutions. Skype for Business and Skype also compete with variety instant messaging, voice, and video communication providers, ranging from start-ups established enterprises. Okta, Proofpoint, and Symantec provide security solutions across email security, information protection, identity, and governance. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications have also positioned themselves alternatives our products and services. compete providing powerful, flexible, secure, integrated industry-specific, and easy- -use productivity and collaboration tools and services that create comprehensive solutions and work well with technologies our customers already have both -premises the cloud. LinkedIn faces competition from online professional networks, recruiting companies, talent management companies, and larger companies that are focusing talent management and human resource services; job boards; traditional recruiting firms; and companies that provide learning and development products and services. Marketing Solutions competes with online and offline outlets that generate revenue from advertisers and marketers, and Sales Solutions competes with online and offline outlets for companies with lead generation and customer intelligence and insights. PART Item Dynamics competes with vendors such Oracle, Salesforce com, and SAP provide cloud-based and -premise business solutions for small, medium, and large organizations. Intelligent Cloud Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that can power modern business and developers. This segment primarily comprises: • Server products and cloud services, including Azure; SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related CALs; and GitHub. • Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server Products and Cloud Services Azure comprehensive set cloud services that offer developers, professionals, and enterprises freedom build, deploy, and manage applications any platform device. Customers can use Azure through our global network datacenters for computing, networking, storage, mobile and web application services, , IoT, cognitive services, and machine learning. Azure enables customers devote more resources development and use applications that benefit their organizations, rather than managing -premises hardware and software. Azure revenue mainly affected infrastructure- - -service and platform- - -service consumption-based services, and per user-based services such Enterprise Mobility + Security. Our server products are designed make professionals, developers, and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed support software applications built the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security, and identity software. also license standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. GitHub provides collaboration platform and code hosting service for developers. Server products revenue mainly affected purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”), and retail packaged products. CALs provide access rights certain server products, including SQL Server and Windows Server, and revenue reported along with the associated server product. Enterprise Services Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services, assist customers developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions and provide training and certification developers and professionals various Microsoft products. Competition Azure faces diverse competition from companies such Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle, VMware, and open source offerings. Our Enterprise Mobility + Security offerings also compete with products from range competitors including identity vendors, security solution vendors, and numerous other security point solution vendors. Azure’ competitive advantage includes enabling hybrid cloud, allowing deployment existing datacenters with our public cloud into single, cohesive infrastructure, and the ability run scale that meets the needs businesses all sizes and complexities. believe our cloud’ global scale, coupled with our broad portfolio identity and security solutions, allows effectively solve complex cybersecurity challenges for our customers and differentiates from the competition. Our server products face competition from wide variety server operating systems and applications offered companies with range market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions the Unix operating system preinstalled server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute Linux operating system development. The competitive position Linux has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many commercial and non-commercial software developers. number companies, such Red Hat, supply versions Linux. PART Item compete provide enterprise-wide computing solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and -business servers. IBM and Oracle lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition that competes with our enterprise-wide computing solutions. Commercial competitors for our server applications for -based distributed client-server environments include Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our web application platform software competes with open source software such Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. middleware, compete against Java vendors. Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP, and other companies. Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such BMC, Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMware. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, and other companies, and also against open-source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby Rails. believe our server products provide customers with advantages performance, total costs ownership, and productivity delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Our Enterprise Services business competes with wide range companies that provide strategy and business planning, application development, and infrastructure services, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused specific technologies. More Personal Computing Our More Personal Computing segment consists products and services that put customers the center the experience with our technology. This segment primarily comprises: • Windows, including Windows OEM licensing (“Windows OEM”) and other non-volume licensing the Windows operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings; patent licensing; Windows IoT; and MSN advertising. • Devices, including Surface and accessories. • Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising Xbox Live (transactions, subscriptions, cloud services, and advertising), video games, and third-party video game royalties. • Search. Windows The Windows operating system designed deliver more personal computing experience for users enabling consistency experience, applications, and information across their devices. Windows OEM revenue impacted significantly the number Windows operating system licenses purchased OEMs, which they pre-install the devices they sell. addition computing device market volume, Windows OEM revenue impacted : • The mix computing devices based form factor and screen size. • Differences device market demand between developed markets and growth markets. • Attachment Windows devices shipped. • Customer mix between consumer, small and medium businesses, and large enterprises. • Changes inventory levels the OEM channel. • Pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when the mix devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders large multinational OEMs, and different pricing Windows versions licensed. • Constraints the supply chain device components. • Piracy. PART Item Windows Commercial revenue, which includes volume licensing the Windows operating system and Windows cloud services such Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection, affected mainly the demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and Software Assurance (“ ”), well advanced security offerings. Windows Commercial revenue often reflects the number information workers licensed enterprise and relatively independent the number PCs sold given year. Patent licensing includes our programs license patents own for use across broad array technology areas, including mobile devices and cloud offerings. Windows IoT extends the power Windows and the cloud intelligent systems delivering specialized operating systems, tools, and services for use embedded devices. MSN advertising includes both native and display ads. Devices design, manufacture, and sell devices, including Surface and accessories. Our devices are designed enable people and organizations connect the people and content that matter most using Windows and integrated Microsoft products and services. Surface designed help organizations, students, and consumers more productive. Growth Devices dependent total shipments, the ability attract new customers, our product roadmap, and expanding into new categories. Gaming Our gaming platform designed provide variety entertainment through unique combination content, community, and cloud. Our exclusive game content created through Xbox Game Studios, collection first-party studios creating iconic and differentiated gaming experiences. continue invest new gaming studios and content expand our roadmap and leverage new content creators. These unique gaming experiences are the cornerstone Xbox Game Pass, subscription service and gaming community with access curated library over first- and third-party console and titles. The gamer remains the heart the Xbox ecosystem. continue open new opportunities for gamers engage both - and off-console with both the launch Project xCloud, our game streaming service, and continued investment gaming hardware. Project xCloud utilizes Microsoft’ Azure cloud technology allow direct and -demand streaming games PCs, consoles, and mobile devices, enabling gamers take their favorites games with them and play the device most convenient them. Project xCloud will provide players with more choice over how and where they play. Xbox Live enables people connect and share online gaming experiences and accessible Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and other devices. Xbox Live designed benefit users providing access network certified applications and services and benefit our developer and partner ecosystems providing access large customer base. Xbox revenue mainly affected subscriptions and sales first- and third-party content, well advertising. Growth our Gaming business determined the overall active user base through Xbox enabled content, availability games, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability the devices used access our content and services, and the ability create new experiences through first-party content creators. Search Our Search business, including Bing and Microsoft Advertising, designed deliver relevant online advertising global audience. have several partnerships with other companies, including Verizon Media Group, through which provide and monetize search queries. Growth depends our ability attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content and advertiser offerings. Competition Windows faces competition from various software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly from Apple and Google. believe Windows competes effectively giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, easy- -use interface, and compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity. PART Item Devices face competition from various computer, tablet, and hardware manufacturers who offer unique combination high-quality industrial design and innovative technologies across various price points. These manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners and customers, include Apple and our Windows OEMs. Xbox Live and our cloud gaming services face competition from various online gaming ecosystems and game streaming services, including those operated Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google, and Tencent. also compete with other providers entertainment services such Netflix and Hulu. Our gaming platform competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large, established base customers. believe our gaming platform effectively positioned against, and uniquely differentiated from, competitive products and services based significant innovation hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own first-party game franchises well other digital content offerings. Our search business competes with Google and wide array websites, social platforms like Facebook, and portals that provide content and online offerings end users. OPERATIONS have operations centers that support operations their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center Singapore supports the Japan, India, Greater China, and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. addition the operations centers, also operate datacenters throughout the Americas, Europe, Australia, and Asia, well the Middle East and Africa. serve the needs customers around the world and improve the quality and usability products international markets, localize many our products reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Our devices are primarily manufactured third-party contract manufacturers. generally have the ability use other manufacturers current vendor becomes unavailable unable meet our requirements. The majority our hardware products contain components for which there only one qualified supplier. Extended disruptions these suppliers could lead similar disruption our ability manufacture devices. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Product and Service Development, and Intellectual Property develop most our products and services internally through the following engineering groups. • Cloud and , focuses making professionals, developers, and their systems more productive and efficient through development cloud infrastructure, server, database, CRM, ERP, management and development tools, cognitive services, and other business process applications and services for enterprises. • Experiences and Devices , focuses instilling unifying product ethos across our end-user experiences and devices, including Office, Windows, Enterprise Mobility + Security, and Surface. • and Research , focuses our innovations and other forward-looking research and development efforts spanning infrastructure, services, applications, and search. • LinkedIn , focuses our services that transform the way customers hire, market, sell, and learn. • Gaming , focuses developing hardware, content, and services across large range platforms help grow our user base through game experiences and social interaction. PART Item Internal development allows maintain competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer technical control over our products and services. also gives the freedom decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. strive obtain information early possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software and hardware design. Before releasing new software platforms, and make significant modifications existing platforms, provide application vendors with range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, also create product documentation internally. protect our intellectual property investments variety ways. work actively the . and internationally ensure the enforcement copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. are leader among technology companies pursuing patents and currently have portfolio over , . and international patents issued and over , pending worldwide. While employ much our internally-developed intellectual property exclusively our products and services, also engage outbound licensing specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees’ products. From time time, enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups patents. also purchase license technology that incorporate into our products and services. times, make select intellectual property broadly available low cost achieve strategic objective, such promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, attracting and enabling our external development community. Our increasing engagement with open source software will also cause license our intellectual property rights broadly certain situations. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects our products, services, and business methods, believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can obtained commercially reasonable terms. believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent any single license other agreement with third party relating the development our products. Investing the Future Our success based our ability create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, enter new geographic and product markets, and drive broad adoption our products and services. invest range emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that believe offer significant opportunities deliver value our customers and growth for the Company. Based our assessment key technology trends, maintain our long-term commitment research and development across wide spectrum technologies, tools, and platforms spanning digital work and life experiences, cloud computing, , devices, and operating systems. While our main product research and development facilities are located Redmond, Washington, also operate research and development facilities other parts the . and around the world, including Canada, China, Czech Republic, India, Ireland, Israel, and the United Kingdom. This global approach helps remain competitive local markets and enables continue attract top talent from across the world. addition our main research and development operations, also operate Microsoft Research. Microsoft Research one the world’ largest corporate research organizations and works close collaboration with top universities around the world advance the state- -the-art computer science and broad range other disciplines, providing unique perspective future trends and contributing our innovation. generally fund research the corporate level ensure that are looking beyond immediate product considerations opportunities further the future. also fund research and development activities the operating segment level. Much our segment level research and development coordinated with other segments and leveraged across the Company. plan continue make significant investments broad range research and development efforts. PART Item DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING market and distribute our products and services through the following channels: OEMs, direct, and distributors and resellers. Our sales force performs variety functions, including working directly with commercial enterprises and public-sector organizations worldwide identify and meet their technology and digital transformation requirements; managing OEM relationships; and supporting system integrators, independent software vendors, and other partners who engage directly with our customers perform sales, consulting, and fulfillment functions for our products and services. OEMs distribute our products and services through OEMs that pre-install our software new devices and servers they sell. The largest component the OEM business the Windows operating system pre-installed devices. OEMs also sell devices pre-installed with other Microsoft products and services, including applications such Office and the capability subscribe Office . There are two broad categories OEMs. The largest category OEMs are direct OEMs our relationship with them managed through direct agreement between Microsoft and the OEM. have distribution agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Acer, ASUS, Dell, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, Samsung, Sharp, Toshiba, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad category OEMs are system builders consisting lower-volume manufacturers, which source Microsoft software for pre-installation and local redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than through direct agreement relationship with Microsoft. Direct Many organizations that license our products and services transact directly with through Enterprise Agreements and Enterprise Services contracts, with sales support from system integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and partners that advise organizations licensing our products and services (“Enterprise Agreement Software Advisors” “ESA”). Microsoft offers direct sales programs targeted reach small, medium, and corporate customers, addition those offered through the reseller channel. large network partner advisors support many these sales. also sell commercial and consumer products and services directly customers, such cloud services, search, and gaming, through our digital marketplaces and online stores. June , announced strategic change our retail operations, including closing our Microsoft Store physical locations. Distributors and Resellers Organizations also license our products and services indirectly, primarily through licensing solution partners (“LSP”), distributors, value-added resellers (“VAR”), and retailers. Although each type reselling partner may reach organizations all sizes, LSPs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily VARs, and VARs typically reach small and medium organizations. ESAs are also typically authorized LSPs and operate resellers for our other volume licensing programs. Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider our main partner program for reselling cloud services. distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products primarily through retail outlets. distribute our devices through third-party retailers. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicit orders from distributors and resellers, and provide product training and sales support. Our Dynamics business solutions are also licensed enterprises through global network channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. PART Item LICENSING OPTIONS offer options for organizations that want purchase our cloud services, -premises software, and Software Assurance. license software organizations under volume licensing agreements allow the customer acquire multiple licenses products and services instead having acquire separate licenses through retail channels. use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they include those discussed below. conveys rights new software and upgrades for perpetual licenses released over the contract period. also provides support, tools, training, and other licensing benefits help customers deploy and use software efficiently. included with certain volume licensing agreements and optional purchase with others. Volume Licensing Programs Enterprise Agreement Enterprise Agreements offer large organizations manageable volume licensing program that gives them the flexibility buy cloud services and software licenses under one agreement. Enterprise Agreements are designed for medium large organizations that want license cloud services and -premises software organization-wide over three-year period. Organizations can elect purchase perpetual licenses subscribe licenses. included. Microsoft Product and Services Agreement Microsoft Product and Services Agreements are designed for medium and large organizations that want license cloud services and -premises software needed, with organization-wide commitment, under single, non-expiring agreement. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses subscribe licenses. optional for customers that purchase perpetual licenses. Open Open agreements are simple, cost-effective way acquire the latest Microsoft technology. Open agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want license cloud services and -premises software over one- three-year period. Under the Open agreements, organizations purchase perpetual licenses and optional. Under Open Value agreements, organizations can elect purchase perpetual licenses subscribe licenses and included. Select Plus Select Plus agreements are designed for government and academic organizations acquire -premises licenses any affiliate department level, while realizing advantages one organization. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses and optional. Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement Microsoft Online Subscription Agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want subscribe , activate, provision, and maintain cloud services seamlessly and directly via the web. The agreement allows customers acquire monthly annual subscriptions for cloud-based services. Partner Programs The Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider program offers customers easy way license the cloud services they need combination with the value-added services offered their systems integrator, managed services provider, cloud reseller partner. Partners this program can easily package their own products and services directly provision, manage, and support their customer subscriptions. The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement allows hosting service providers and independent software vendors who want license eligible Microsoft software products provide software services and hosted applications their end customers. Partners license software over three-year period and are billed monthly based consumption. PART Item The Independent Software Vendor Royalty program enables partners integrate Microsoft products into other applications and then license the unified business solution their end users. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global enterprises, public-sector institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. PART Item EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers July , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company Satya Nadella Chief Executive Officer Christopher . Capossela Executive Vice President, Marketing and Consumer Business, and Chief Marketing Officer Jean-Philippe Courtois Executive Vice President and President, Microsoft Global Sales, Marketing and Operations Kathleen . Hogan Executive Vice President, Human Resources Amy . Hood Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Bradford . Smith President and Chief Legal Officer . Nadella was appointed Chief Executive Officer February . served Executive Vice President, Cloud and Enterprise from July until that time. From , . Nadella served President, Server and Tools. From , was Senior Vice President, Online Services Division. From , was Senior Vice President, Search, Portal, and Advertising. Since joining Microsoft , . Nadella’ roles also included Vice President the Business Division. . Nadella also serves the Board Directors Starbucks Corporation. . Capossela was appointed Executive Vice President, Marketing and Consumer Business, and Chief Marketing Officer July . had served Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer since March . Previously, served the worldwide leader the Consumer Channels Group, responsible for sales and marketing activities with OEMs, operators, and retail partners. his more than years Microsoft, . Capossela has held variety marketing leadership roles the Microsoft Office Division. was responsible for marketing productivity solutions including Microsoft Office, Office , SharePoint, Exchange, Skype for Business, Project, and Visio. . Courtois was appointed Executive Vice President and President, Microsoft Global Sales, Marketing and Operations July . Before that was President Microsoft International since . was Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa from . was Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa from . was Corporate Vice President, Worldwide Customer Marketing from . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . Hogan was appointed Executive Vice President, Human Resources November . Prior that . Hogan was Corporate Vice President Microsoft Services. She also served Corporate Vice President Customer Service and Support. . Hogan joined Microsoft . . Hogan also serves the Board Directors Alaska Air Group, Inc. . Hood was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer July , subsequent her appointment Chief Financial Officer May . From , . Hood was Chief Financial Officer the Microsoft Business Division. From through , . Hood was General Manager, Microsoft Business Division Strategy. Since joining Microsoft , . Hood has also held finance-related positions the Server and Tools Business and the corporate finance organization. . Hood also serves the Board Directors Corporation. . Smith was appointed President and Chief Legal Officer September . served Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from , and served Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer . Since joining Microsoft , was Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. . Smith also serves the Board Directors Netflix, Inc. PART Item EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the . and , internationally. the total employed people, , were operations, including manufacturing, distribution, product support, and consulting services; , were product research and development; , were sales and marketing; and , were general and administration. Certain our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. our Investor Relations website, www microsoft com investor, make available free charge variety information for investors. Our goal maintain the Investor Relations website portal through which investors can easily find navigate pertinent information about , including: • Our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file that material with furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) www sec gov. • Information our business strategies, financial results, and metrics for investors. • Announcements investor conferences, speeches, and events which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives these events are also available. • Press releases quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news. • Corporate governance information including our articles incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes conduct and ethics, global corporate social responsibility initiatives, and other governance-related policies. • Other news and announcements that may post from time time that investors might find useful interesting. • Opportunities sign for email alerts have information pushed real time. The information found our website not part this any other report file with, furnish , the SEC. addition these channels, use social media communicate the public. possible that the information post social media could deemed material investors. encourage investors, the media, and others interested Microsoft review the information post the social media channels listed our Investor Relations website. PART Item ", 'item 1a. ': "RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results operations, cash flows, and the trading price our common stock. face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead lower revenue operating margins. Competition the technology sector Our competitors range size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them more effective deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. Barriers entry many our businesses are low and many the areas which compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions new products and services. Our ability remain competitive depends our success making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal businesses and consumers. Competition among platform-based ecosystems important element our business model has been create platform-based ecosystems which many participants can build diverse solutions. well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. Establishing significant scale the marketplace necessary achieve and maintain attractive margins. face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms. • competing vertically-integrated model, which single firm controls the software and hardware elements product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, wearables, and other endpoint devices. Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform, including applications and content sold through their integrated marketplaces. They may also able claim security and performance benefits from their vertically integrated offer. also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services. the extent shift portion our business vertically integrated model increase our cost revenue and reduce our operating margins. • derive substantial revenue from licenses Windows operating systems PCs. face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such smartphones and tablet computers. These devices compete multiple bases including price and the perceived utility the device and its platform. Users are increasingly turning these devices perform functions that the past were performed personal computers. Even many users view these devices complementary personal computer, the prevalence these devices may make more difficult attract application developers our operating system platforms. Competing with operating systems licensed low cost may decrease our operating system margins. Popular products services offered competing platforms could increase their competitive strength. addition, some our devices compete with products made our original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) partners, which may affect their commitment our platform. • Competing platforms have content and application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases. The variety and utility content and applications available platform are important device purchasing decisions. Users may incur costs move data and buy new content and applications when switching platforms. compete, must successfully enlist developers write applications for our platform and ensure that these applications have high quality, security, customer appeal, and value. Efforts compete with competitors’ content and application marketplaces may increase our cost revenue and lower our operating margins. Competitors’ rules governing their content and applications marketplaces may restrict our ability distribute products and services through them accordance with our technical and business model objectives. PART Item Business model competition Companies compete with based growing variety business models. • Even transition more our business infrastructure-, platform-, and software- - -service business model, the license-based proprietary software model generates substantial portion our software revenue. bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. Many our competitors also develop and sell software businesses and consumers under this model. • Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenue funds development products and services these competitors provide users little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. • Some companies compete with modifying and then distributing open source software little cost end users, and earning revenue advertising integrated products and services. These firms not bear the full costs research and development for the open source software. Some open source software mimics the features and functionality our products. The competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. This may lead lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. Our increasing focus cloud-based services presents execution and competitive risks. growing part our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum computing devices. Our strategic vision compete and grow building best- -class platforms and productivity services for intelligent cloud and intelligent edge infused with artificial intelligence (“ ”). the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services the cloud and sometimes the user’ choice which cloud-based services use. are devoting significant resources develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. The Windows ecosystem must continue evolve with this changing environment. are undertaking cultural and organizational changes drive accountability and eliminate obstacles innovation. Our intelligent cloud and intelligent edge worldview connected with the growth the Internet Things (“IoT”). Our success the IoT will depend the level adoption our offerings such Azure, Azure Stack, Azure IoT Edge, and Azure Sphere. may not establish market share sufficient achieve scale necessary achieve our business objectives. Besides software development costs, are incurring costs build and maintain infrastructure support cloud computing services. These costs will reduce the operating margins have previously achieved. Whether succeed cloud-based services depends our execution several areas, including: • Continuing bring market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share. • Maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance our cloud-based services the growing array computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other devices, well sensors and other endpoints. • Continuing enhance the attractiveness our cloud platforms third-party developers. • Ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations our customers and maintain the security their data well help them meet their own compliance needs. • Making our suite cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available wide range devices and ecosystems, including those our competitors. uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users generate the revenue required succeed. are not effective executing organizational and technical changes increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, fail generate sufficient usage our new products and services, may not grow revenue line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. This may negatively impact gross margins and operating income. PART Item make significant investments products and services that may not achieve expected returns. will continue make significant investments research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, Microsoft , Office, Bing, SQL Server, Windows Server, Azure, Office , Xbox Live, LinkedIn, and other products and services. also invest the development and acquisition variety hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including PCs, tablets, gaming devices, and HoloLens. Investments new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. customers not perceive our latest offerings providing significant new functionality other value, they may reduce their purchases new software and hardware products upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, all. New products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not high the margins have experienced historically. may not get engagement certain features, like Edge and Bing, that drive post-sale monetization opportunities. Our data handling practices across our products and services will continue under scrutiny and perceptions mismanagement, driven regulatory activity negative public reaction our practices product experiences, which could negatively impact product and feature adoption, product design, and product quality. Developing new technologies complex. can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new releases significant problems creating new products services could adversely affect our revenue. Acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances part our long-term business strategy. For example, October , completed our acquisition GitHub, Inc. (“GitHub”) for $ billion. These acquisitions and other transactions and arrangements involve significant challenges and risks, including that they not advance our business strategy, that get unsatisfactory return our investment, that have difficulty integrating and retaining new employees, business systems, and technology, that they distract management from our other businesses. arrangement fails adequately anticipate changing circumstances and interests party, may result early termination renegotiation the arrangement. The success these transactions and arrangements will depend part our ability leverage them enhance our existing products and services develop compelling new ones. may take longer than expected realize the full benefits from these transactions and arrangements such increased revenue enhanced efficiencies, the benefits may ultimately smaller than expected. These events could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. our goodwill amortizable intangible assets become impaired, may required record significant charge earnings. acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause impairment goodwill intangibles. review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. test goodwill for impairment least annually. Factors that may change circumstances, indicating that the carrying value our goodwill amortizable intangible assets may not recoverable, include decline our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates industry segments which participate. have the past recorded, and may the future required record significant charge our consolidated financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill amortizable intangible assets determined, negatively affecting our results operations. PART Item Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could lead reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, harm our reputation competitive position. Security our information technology Threats security can take variety forms. Individual and groups hackers and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations nation-states, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats our customers and our . These actors may use wide variety methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software exploiting vulnerabilities hardware, software, other infrastructure order attack our products and services gain access our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques induce our employees, users, partners, customers disclose passwords other sensitive information take other actions gain access our data our users’ customers’ data, acting coordinated manner launch distributed denial service other coordinated attacks. Inadequate account security practices may also result unauthorized access confidential data. For example, system administrators may fail timely remove employee account access when longer appropriate. Employees third parties may intentionally compromise our our users’ security systems, reveal confidential information. Cyberthreats are constantly evolving, increasing the difficulty detecting and successfully defending against them. may have current capability detect certain vulnerabilities, which may allow them persist the environment over long periods time. Cyberthreats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those our partners and customers. Breaches our facilities, network, data security could disrupt the security our systems and business applications, impair our ability provide services our customers and protect the privacy their data, result product development delays, compromise confidential technical business information harming our reputation competitive position, result theft misuse our intellectual property other assets, require allocate more resources improve technologies, otherwise adversely affect our business. addition, our internal environment continues evolve. Often, are early adopters new devices and technologies. embrace new ways sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes new threats emerge. Security our products, services, devices, and customers’ data The security our products and services important our customers’ decisions purchase use our products services. Security threats are significant challenge companies like whose business providing technology products and services others. Threats our own infrastructure can also affect our customers. Customers using our cloud-based services rely the security our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided third parties, ensure the reliability our services and the protection their data. Adversaries tend focus their efforts the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many ours, and expect that continue. Adversaries that acquire user account information other companies can use that information compromise our users’ accounts where accounts share the same attributes passwords. Inadequate account security practices may also result unauthorized access. User activity may also result ransomware other malicious software impacting customer’ use our products services. are also increasingly incorporating open source software into our products. There may vulnerabilities open source software that may make our products susceptible cyberattacks. defend against security threats our internal systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers’ systems, must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities our own products well those provided others, develop mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity our network, products, and services, and provide security tools such firewalls and anti-virus software and information about the need deploy security measures and the impact doing . Customers certain industries such financial services, health care, and government may have enhanced specialized requirements which must engineer our product and services. PART Item The cost these steps could reduce our operating margins. fail these things well, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products and services, data corruption issues, reduced performance could harm our reputation and lead customers reduce delay future purchases products subscriptions services, use competing products services. Customers may also spend more protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption additional products services. Customers, and third parties granted access their systems, may fail update their systems, continue run software operating systems longer support, may fail timely install enable security patches, may otherwise fail adopt adequate security practices. Any these could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. Actual perceived vulnerabilities may lead claims against . Our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure liability, but there assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. times, achieve commercial objectives, may enter into agreements with larger liability exposure customers. Our products operate conjunction with and are dependent products and components across broad ecosystem third parties. there security vulnerability one these components, and there security exploit targeting , could face increased costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, harm our reputation competitive position. Disclosure and misuse personal data could result liability and harm our reputation. continue grow the number and scale our cloud-based offerings, store and process increasingly large amounts personally identifiable information our customers and users. The continued occurrence high-profile data breaches provides evidence external environment increasingly hostile information security. Despite our efforts improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, possible our security controls over personal data, our training employees and third parties data security, and other practices follow may not prevent the improper disclosure misuse customer user data our vendors store and manage. addition, third parties who have limited access our customer user data may use this data unauthorized ways. Improper disclosure misuse could harm our reputation, lead legal exposure customers users, subject liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting increased costs loss revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers and users store and process personal data -premises , increasingly, cloud-based environment host. Government authorities can sometimes require produce customer user data response valid legal orders. the . and elsewhere, advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations government authority compel disclosure. Despite our efforts protect customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention personal information not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales our products services, and could limit adoption our cloud-based solutions consumers, businesses, and government entities. Additional security measures may take address customer user concerns, constraints our flexibility determine where and how operate datacenters response customer user expectations governmental rules actions, may cause higher operating expenses hinder growth our products and services. may not able protect information our products and services from use others . LinkedIn and other Microsoft products and services contain valuable information and content protected contractual restrictions technical measures. certain cases, have made commitments our members and users limit access use this information. Changes the law interpretations the law may weaken our ability prevent third parties from scraping gathering information content through use bots other measures and using for their own benefit, thus diminishing the value our products and services. Abuse our platforms may harm our reputation user engagement. Advertising, professional, and social platform abuses For platform products and services that provide content host ads that come from can influenced third parties, including GitHub, LinkedIn, Microsoft Advertising, MSN, and Xbox Live, our reputation user engagement may negatively affected activity that hostile inappropriate. This activity may come from users impersonating other people organizations, use our products services spread terrorist violent extremist content disseminate information that may viewed misleading intended manipulate the opinions our users, the use our products services that violates our terms service otherwise for objectionable illegal ends. Preventing responding these actions may require make substantial investments people and technology and these investments may not successful, adversely affecting our business and consolidated financial statements. PART Item Digital safety and service misuse Our hosted consumer services well our enterprise services may used third parties disseminate harmful illegal content violation our terms applicable law. may not proactively discover such content due scale and the limitations existing technologies, and when discovered users, such content may negatively affect our reputation, our brands, and user engagement. Regulations and other initiatives make platforms responsible for preventing eliminating harmful content online are gaining momentum and expect this continue. may subject enhanced regulatory oversight, civil criminal liability, reputational damage fail comply with content moderation regulations, adversely affecting our business and consolidated financial statements. The development the IoT presents security, privacy, and execution risks. support the growth the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge, are developing products, services, and technologies power the IoT, network distributed and interconnected devices employing sensors, data, and computing capabilities including . The IoT’ great potential also carries substantial risks. IoT products and services may contain defects design, manufacture, operation, that make them insecure ineffective for their intended purposes. IoT solution has multiple layers hardware, sensors, processors, software, and firmware, several which may not develop control. Each layer, including the weakest layer, can impact the security the whole system. Many IoT devices have limited interfaces and ability updated patched. IoT solutions may collect large amounts data, and our handling IoT data may not satisfy customers regulatory requirements. IoT scenarios may increasingly affect personal health and safety. IoT solutions that include our technologies not work intended, violate the law, harm individuals businesses, may subject legal claims enforcement actions. These risks, realized, may increase our costs, damage our reputation brands, negatively impact our revenues margins. Issues the use our offerings may result reputational harm liability . are building into many our offerings and expect this element our business grow. envision future which operating our devices, applications, and the cloud helps our customers more productive their work and personal lives. with many disruptive innovations, presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. algorithms may flawed. Datasets may insufficient contain biased information. Inappropriate controversial data practices Microsoft others could impair the acceptance solutions. These deficiencies could undermine the decisions, predictions, analysis applications produce, subjecting competitive harm, legal liability, and brand reputational harm. Some scenarios present ethical issues. enable offer solutions that are controversial because their impact human rights, privacy, employment, other social issues, may experience brand reputational harm. may have excessive outages, data losses, and disruptions our online services fail maintain adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic, growth services, and the complexity our products and services demand more computing power. spend substantial amounts build, purchase, lease datacenters and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure handle more traffic our websites and our datacenters. These demands continue increase introduce new products and services and support the growth existing services such Bing, Azure, Microsoft Account services, Office , Microsoft Teams, Dynamics , OneDrive, SharePoint Online, Skype, Xbox Live, and Outlook com. are rapidly growing our business providing platform and back-end hosting for services provided third parties their end users. Maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure expensive and complex, and requires development principles for datacenter builds geographies with higher safety risks. requires that maintain Internet connectivity infrastructure and storage and compute capacity that robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue evolve. Inefficiencies operational failures, including temporary permanent loss customer data, insufficient Internet connectivity, inadequate storage and compute capacity, could diminish the quality our products, services, and user experience resulting contractual liability, claims customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage our reputation, and loss current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each which may adversely impact our consolidated financial statements. may experience quality supply problems. Our hardware products such Xbox consoles, Surface devices, and other devices design, manufacture, and market are highly complex and can have defects design, manufacture, associated software. could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm result recalls, safety alerts, product liability claims fail prevent, detect, address such issues through design, testing, warranty repairs. PART Item Our software products and services also may experience quality reliability problems. The highly sophisticated software develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. Our customers increasingly rely for critical functions, potentially magnifying the impact quality reliability issues. Any defects not detect and fix pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage our reputation, repair remediation costs, delays the release new products versions, legal liability. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure liability, there assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. acquire some device and datacenter components from sole suppliers. Our competitors use some the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available . component from sole-source supplier delayed becomes unavailable, whether because supplier capacity constraint, industry shortages, legal regulatory changes, other reasons, may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting reduced sales inadequate datacenter capacity. Component shortages, excess obsolete inventory, price reductions resulting inventory adjustments may increase our cost revenue. Xbox consoles, Surface devices, datacenter servers, and other hardware are assembled Asia and other geographies that may subject disruptions the supply chain, resulting shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. These same risks would apply any other hardware and software products may offer. may not able protect our source code from copying there unauthorized disclosure. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, critical our business. Although license portions our application and operating system source code several licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. our source code leaks, might lose future trade secret protection for that code. may then become easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code also could increase the security risks described elsewhere these risk factors. Legal changes, our evolving business model, piracy, and other factors may decrease the value our intellectual property. Protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use our software and other intellectual property global basis difficult. While piracy adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the . more significant, particularly countries which the legal system provides less protection for intellectual property rights. Our revenue these markets may grow more slowly than the underlying device market. Similarly, the absence harmonized patent laws makes more difficult ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, educate users about the benefits licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. Reductions the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. expend significant resources patent the intellectual property create with the expectation that will generate revenues incorporating that intellectual property our products services , some instances, licensing our patents others return for royalty. Changes the law may continue weaken our ability prevent the use patented technology collect revenue for licensing our patents. These include legislative changes and regulatory actions that make more difficult obtain injunctions, and the increasing use legal process challenge issued patents. Similarly, licensees our patents may fail satisfy their obligations pay royalties, may contest the scope and extent their obligations. The royalties can obtain monetize our intellectual property may decline because the evolution technology, selling price changes products using licensed patents, the difficulty discovering infringements. Finally, our increasing engagement with open source software will also cause license our intellectual property rights broadly certain situations and may negatively impact revenue. PART Item Third parties may claim infringe their intellectual property rights. From time time, others claim infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow because constant technological change the markets which compete, the extensive patent coverage existing technologies, the rapid rate issuance new patents, and our offering first-party devices, such Surface. resolve these claims, may enter into royalty and licensing agreements terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling redesign affected products services, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. These outcomes may cause operating margins decline. Besides money damages, some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products services that have infringing technologies. some countries, such Germany, injunction can issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity the underlying patents. have paid significant amounts settle claims related the use technology and intellectual property rights and procure intellectual property rights part our strategy manage this risk, and may continue . have claims and lawsuits against that may result adverse outcomes. are subject variety claims and lawsuits. These claims may arise from wide variety business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases such Windows , significant business transactions, warranty product claims, and employment practices. Adverse outcomes some all these claims may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability conduct our business. The litigation and other claims are subject inherent uncertainties and management’ view these matters may change the future. material adverse impact our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period which the effect unfavorable outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Government litigation and regulatory activity relating competition rules may limit how design and market our products. leading global software and device maker, government agencies closely scrutinize under . and foreign competition laws. Governments are actively enforcing competition laws and regulations, and this includes scrutiny potentially large markets such the European Union (“ ”), the ., and China. Some jurisdictions also allow competitors consumers assert claims anti-competitive conduct. . federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue scrutinize our business. The European Commission (“the Commission”) closely scrutinizes the design high-volume Microsoft products and the terms which make certain technologies used these products, such file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available other companies. Flagship product releases such Windows can receive significant scrutiny under competition laws. For example, , the Commission ordered create new versions our Windows operating system that not include certain multimedia technologies and provide our competitors with specifications for how implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols their own products. , the Commission accepted set commitments offered address the Commission’ concerns relating competition web browsing software, including undertaking address Commission concerns relating interoperability. The web browsing commitments expired . The remaining obligations may limit our ability innovate Windows other products the future, diminish the developer appeal the Windows platform, and increase our product development costs. The availability licenses related protocols and file formats may enable competitors develop software products that better mimic the functionality our products, which could hamper sales our products. Our portfolio first-party devices continues grow; the same time our OEM partners offer large variety devices for our platforms. result, increasingly both cooperate and compete with our OEM partners, creating risk that fail compliance with competition rules. Regulatory scrutiny this area may increase. Certain foreign governments, particularly China and other countries Asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure royalties for our intellectual property. Government regulatory actions and court decisions such these may result fines, hinder our ability provide the benefits our software consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness our products and the revenue that come from them. New competition law actions could initiated, potentially using previous actions precedent. The outcome such actions, steps taken avoid them, could adversely affect variety ways, including: • may have choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies avoid fines designing and developing alternative versions those products comply with government rulings, which may entail delay product release and removing functionality that customers want which developers rely. PART Item • may required make available licenses our proprietary technologies terms that not reflect their fair market value not protect our associated intellectual property. • are subject variety ongoing commitments because court administrative orders, consent decrees, other voluntary actions have taken. fail comply with these commitments, may incur litigation costs and subject substantial fines other remedial actions. • Our ability realize anticipated Windows post-sale monetization opportunities may limited. Our global operations subject potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (“Anti-Corruption Laws”) prohibit corrupt payments our employees, vendors, agents, and the accounting provisions the FCPA require maintain accurate books and records and adequate internal controls. From time time, receive inquiries from authorities the . and elsewhere which may based reports from employees and others about our business activities outside the . and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. Periodically, receive such reports directly and investigate them. July , , our Hungarian subsidiary entered into non-prosecution agreement (“NPA”) with the . Department Justice (“DOJ”) and agreed the terms cease and desist order with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These agreements required pay $ million monetary penalties, disgorgement, and interest pertaining activities Microsoft’ subsidiary Hungary. The NPA, which has three-year term, also contains certain ongoing compliance requirements, including the obligations disclose the DOJ issues that may implicate the FCPA and cooperate any inquiries. Most countries which operate also have competition laws that prohibit competitors from colluding otherwise attempting reduce competition between themselves. While devote substantial resources our . and international compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed reduce the risk corrupt payments and collusive activity, our employees, vendors, agents may violate our policies. Our failure comply with Anti-Corruption Laws competition laws could result significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against , our officers, our employees, prohibitions the conduct our business, and damage our reputation. Operations outside the . may affected changes trade protection laws, policies, sanctions, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. may subject legal liability and reputational damage sell goods services violation . trade sanctions restricted entities countries such Crimea, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, and Syria. Other regulatory areas that may apply our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, and online content. For example, some regulators are taking the position that our offerings such Microsoft Teams and Skype are covered existing laws regulating telecommunications services, and some new laws, including Member State laws under the European Electronic Communications Code, are defining more our services regulated telecommunications services. This trend may continue and will result these offerings being subjected additional data protection, security, and law enforcement surveillance obligations. Data protection authorities may assert that our collection, use, and management customer data inconsistent with their laws and regulations. Legislative regulatory action relating cybersecurity requirements may increase the costs develop, implement, secure our products and services. Legislative regulatory action could also emerge the area and content moderation, increasing costs restricting opportunity. Applying these laws and regulations our business often unclear, subject change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction jurisdiction. Additionally, these laws and governments’ approach their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing evolve. Compliance with these types regulation may involve significant costs require changes products business practices that result reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result the imposition penalties orders stop the alleged noncompliant activity. strive empower all people and organizations achieve more, and accessibility our products important aspect this goal. There increasing pressure from advocacy groups, regulators, competitors, customers, and other stakeholders make technology more accessible. our products not meet customer expectations emerging global accessibility requirements, could lose sales opportunities face regulatory actions PART Item Laws and regulations relating the handling personal data may impede the adoption our services result increased costs, legal claims, fines against , reputational damage . The growth our Internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies increasingly the movement data across national boundaries. Legal requirements relating the collection, storage, handling, and transfer personal data continue evolve. For example, July the Court Justice the invalidated framework called Privacy Shield for companies transfer data from member states the United States. This ruling has led uncertainty about the legal requirements for data transfers from the under other egal mechanisms. Potential new rules and restrictions the flow data across borders could increase the cost and complexity delivering our products and services some markets. May , the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), became effective. The law, which applies all our activities conducted from establishment the related products and services offered the , imposes range compliance obligations regarding the handling personal data. Engineering efforts build and maintain capabilities facilitate compliance with the law have entailed substantial expense and the diversion engineering resources from other projects and may continue . might experience reduced demand for our offerings are unable engineer products that meet our legal duties help our customers meet their obligations under the GDPR other data regulations, our implementation comply with the GDPR make our offerings less attractive. The GDPR imposes significant new obligations and compliance with these obligations depends part how particular regulators interpret and apply them. fail comply with the GDPR, regulators assert have failed comply with the GDPR, may lead regulatory enforcement actions, which can result monetary penalties % worldwide revenue, private lawsuits, reputational damage , and loss customers . Countries around the world, and states the . such California , adopted, are considering adopting expanding , laws and regulations imposing obligations regarding the handling personal data. The Company’ investment gaining insights from data becoming central the value the services deliver customers, our operational efficiency and key opportunities monetization, customer perceptions quality, and operational efficiency. Our ability use data this way may constrained regulatory developments that impede realizing the expected return from this investment. Ongoing legal analyses, reviews, and inquiries regulators Microsoft practices, relevant practices other organizations, may result burdensome inconsistent requirements, including data sovereignty and localization requirements, affecting the location, movement, collection, and use our customer and internal employee data well the management that data. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding personal data may require changes services, business practices, internal systems that result increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, greater difficulty competing with foreign-based firms. Compliance with data regulations might limit our ability innovate offer certain features and functionality some jurisdictions where operate. Failure comply with existing new rules may result significant penalties orders stop the alleged noncompliant activity, well negative publicity and diversion management time and effort. may have additional tax liabilities. are subject income taxes the . and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. For example, compliance with the United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) may require the collection information not regularly produced within the Company, the use estimates our consolidated financial statements, and the exercise significant judgment accounting for its provisions. regulations and guidance evolve with respect the TCJA, and gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our consolidated financial statements. regularly are under audit tax authorities different jurisdictions. Although believe that our provision for income taxes and our tax estimates are reasonable, tax authorities may disagree with certain positions have taken. addition, economic and political pressures increase tax revenue various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. are currently under Internal Revenue Service audit for prior tax years, with the primary unresolved issues relating transfer pricing. The final resolution those audits, and other audits litigation, may differ from the amounts recorded our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our consolidated financial statements the period periods which that determination made. PART Item earn significant amount our operating income outside the . change the mix earnings and losses countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes our business structure, the expiration disputes about certain tax agreements particular country may result higher effective tax rates for the Company. addition, changes . federal and state international tax laws applicable corporate multinationals, other fundamental law changes currently being considered many countries, including the ., and changes taxing jurisdictions’ administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions may materially adversely impact our consolidated financial statements. our reputation our brands are damaged, our business and operating results may harmed . Our reputation and brands are globally recognized and are important our business. Our reputation and brands affect our ability attract and retain consumer, business, and public-sector customers. There are numerous ways our reputation brands could damaged. These include product safety quality issues, our environmental impact and sustainability, supply chain practices, human rights record. may experience backlash from customers, government entities, advocacy groups, employees, and other stakeholders that disagree with our product offering decisions public policy positions. Damage our reputation our brands may occur from, among other things: • The introduction new features, products, services, terms service that customers, users, partners not like. • Public scrutiny our decisions regarding user privacy, data practices, content. • Data security breaches, compliance failures, actions partners individual employees. The proliferation social media may increase the likelihood, speed, and magnitude negative brand events. our brands reputation are damaged, could negatively impact our revenues margins, ability attract the most highly qualified employees. Our global business exposes operational and economic risks. Our customers are located throughout the world and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. The global nature our business creates operational and economic risks. Our results operations may affected global, regional, and local economic developments, monetary policy, inflation, and recession, well political and military disputes. addition, our international growth strategy includes certain markets, the developing nature which presents several risks, including deterioration social, political, labor, economic conditions country region, and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations. Emerging nationalist trends specific countries may significantly alter the trade environment. Changes trade policy agreements result populism, protectionism, economic nationalism may result higher tariffs, local sourcing initiatives, other developments that make more difficult sell our products foreign countries. Disruptions these kinds developed emerging markets could negatively impact demand for our products and services increase operating costs. Although hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations foreign exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our results operations . Our business with government customers may present additional uncertainties. derive substantial revenue from government contracts. Government contracts generally can present risks and challenges not present private commercial agreements. For instance, may subject government audits and investigations relating these contracts, could suspended debarred governmental contractor, could incur civil and criminal fines and penalties, and under certain circumstances contracts may rescinded. Some agreements may allow government terminate without cause and provide for higher liability limits for certain losses. Some contracts may subject periodic funding approval, reductions, delays which could adversely impact public-sector demand for our products and services. These events could negatively impact our results operations, financial condition, and reputation . Adverse economic market conditions may harm our business. Worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, pandemic, other changes economic conditions, may cause lower spending and adversely affect our revenue. demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, consumer business spending for those products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. Our product distribution system relies extensive partner and retail network. OEMs building devices that run our software have also been significant means distribution. The impact economic conditions our partners, such the bankruptcy major distributor, OEM, retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. PART Item Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability our customers pay for products and services they have purchased. result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs accounts receivable may increase. maintain investment portfolio various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are subject general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may exacerbated market downturns events that affect global financial markets. significant part our investment portfolio comprises . government securities. global financial markets decline for long periods, there downgrade the . government credit rating due actual threatened default government debt, our investment portfolio may adversely affected and could determine that more our investments have experienced other-than-temporary decline fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. Catastrophic events geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business. disruption failure our systems operations because major earthquake, weather event, cyberattack, terrorist attack, pandemic, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales, providing services, performing other critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are seismically active regions. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business systems, the infrastructure systems they rely , such power grids, could harm our ability conduct normal business operations. Providing our customers with more services and solutions the cloud puts premium the resilience our systems and strength our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact prolonged service outages our consolidated financial statements. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers. Geopolitical change may result changing regulatory requirements that could impact our operating strategies, access global markets, hiring, and profitability. Geopolitical instability may lead sanctions and impact our ability business some markets with some public-sector customers. Any these changes may negatively impact our revenues. The occurrence regional epidemics global pandemic may adversely affect our operations, financial condition, and results operations. The COVID- pandemic having widespread, rapidly evolving, and unpredictable impacts global society, economies, financial markets, and business practices. Federal and state governments have implemented measures effort contain the virus, including social distancing, travel restrictions, border closures, limitations public gatherings, work from home, supply chain logistical changes, and closure non-essential businesses. protect the health and well-being our employees, suppliers, and customers, have made substantial modifications employee travel policies, implemented office closures employees are advised work from home, and cancelled shifted our conferences and other marketing events virtual-only through fiscal year . The COVID- pandemic has impacted and may continue impact our business operations, including our employees, customers, partners, and communities, and there substantial uncertainty the nature and degree its continued effects over time. the third and fourth quarters fiscal year , have experienced adverse impacts our supply chain, slowdown transactional licensing, and lower demand for our advertising services. The extent which the COVID- pandemic impacts our business going forward will depend numerous evolving factors cannot reliably predict, including the duration and scope the pandemic; governmental, business, and individuals' actions response the pandemic; and the impact economic activity including the possibility recession financial market instability. These factors may adversely impact consumer, business, and government spending technology well customers' ability pay for our products and services ongoing basis. This uncertainty also affects management’ accounting estimates and assumptions, which could result greater variability variety areas that depend these estimates and assumptions, including investments, receivables, and forward-looking guidance. PART Item Measures contain the virus that impact , our partners, distributors, and suppliers may further intensify these impacts and other risks described these Risk Factors. Any these may adversely impact our ability : • Maintain our operations infrastructure, including the reliability and adequate capacity cloud services. • Satisfy our contractual and regulatory compliance obligations adapt changing usage patterns, such through datacenter load balancing. • Ensure high-quality and consistent supply chain and manufacturing operations for our hardware devices and datacenter operations. • Effectively manage our international operations through changes trade practices and policies. • Hire and deploy people where most need them. • Sustain the effectiveness and productivity our operations including our sales, marketing, engineering, and distribution functions. may incur increased costs effectively manage these aspects our business. are unsuccessful may adversely impact our revenues, cash flows, market share growth, and reputation. The long-term effects climate change the global economy and the industry particular are unclear. Environmental regulations changes the supply, demand available sources energy other resources may affect the availability cost goods and services, including natural resources, necessary run our business. Changes climate where operate may increase the costs powering and cooling computer hardware use develop software and provide cloud-based services. Our business depends our ability attract and retain talented employees. Our business based successfully attracting and retaining talented employees representing diverse backgrounds, experiences, and skill sets. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders our industry extremely competitive. Maintaining our brand and reputation, well diverse and inclusive work environment that enables all our employees thrive, are important our ability recruit and retain employees. are also limited our ability recruit internationally restrictive domestic immigration laws. Changes . immigration policies that restrain the flow technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability adequately staff our research and development efforts. are less successful our recruiting efforts, cannot retain highly skilled workers and key leaders, our ability develop and deliver successful products and services may adversely affected. Effective succession planning also important our long-term success. Failure ensure effective transfer knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. How employment-related laws are interpreted and applied our workforce practices may result increased operating costs and less flexibility how meet our workforce needs. PART Item , , , ", 'item 1b. ': 'UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS have received written comments regarding our periodic current reports from the staff the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued days more preceding the end our fiscal year that remain unresolved. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our corporate headquarters are located Redmond, Washington. have approximately million square feet space located King County, Washington that used for engineering, sales, marketing, and operations, among other general and administrative purposes. These facilities include approximately million square feet owned space situated approximately acres land own our corporate headquarters, and approximately five million square feet space lease. addition, own and lease space domestically that includes office, datacenter, and retail space. also own and lease facilities internationally. The largest owned properties include: our research and development centers China and India; our datacenters Ireland, the Netherlands, and Singapore; and our operations and facilities Ireland and the United Kingdom. The largest leased properties include space the following locations: Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Japan, Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. addition the above locations, have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described under Research and Development (Part , Item this Form - ). The table below shows summary the square footage our office, datacenter, retail, and other facilities owned and leased domestically and internationally June , : (Square feet millions) Location Owned Leased Total . International Total ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS While not material the Company, the Company makes the following annual report the general activities the Company’ Antitrust Compliance Office required the Final Order and Judgment Barovic . Ballmer , United States District Court for the Western District Washington (“Final Order”). For more information see http://aka MSLegalNotice2015. This will the last annual report under the Final Order. During fiscal year , the Antitrust Compliance Office ( ) monitored the Company’ compliance with the European Commission Decision March , , (“ Decision”) and with the Company’ Public Undertaking the European Commission dated December , (“ Undertaking”); ( ) monitored, the manner required the Final Order, employee, customer, competitor, regulator, other third-party complaints regarding compliance with the Decision, the Undertaking, other . laws regulations governing tying, bundling, and exclusive dealing contracts; and, ( ) monitored, the manner required the Final Order, the training the Company’ employees regarding the Company’ antitrust compliance polices. addition, the Antitrust Compliance Officer reports the Regulatory and Public Policy Committee the Board each its regularly scheduled meetings and the full Board annually. Refer Note – Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for information regarding legal proceedings which are involved. ', 'item 4. ': 'MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART Item PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’ COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET AND STOCKHOLDERS Our common stock traded the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. July , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. SHARE REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS Following are our monthly share repurchases for the fourth quarter fiscal year : Period Total Number Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Plans Programs Approximate Dollar Value Shares That May Yet Purchased Under the Plans Programs ( millions) April , – April , , , $ , , $ , May , – May , , , , , , June , – June , , , , , , , , , , All share repurchases were made using cash resources. Our share repurchases may occur through open market purchases pursuant Rule 10b5- trading plan. The above table excludes shares repurchased settle employee tax withholding related the vesting stock awards. Our Board Directors declared the following dividends during the fourth quarter fiscal year : Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Dividend Per Share Amount ( millions) June , August , September , $ $ , returned $ billion shareholders the form share repurchases and dividends the fourth quarter fiscal year . Refer Note – Stockholders’ Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for further discussion regarding share repurchases and dividends. PART Item ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June , ( ) ( )( ) ( ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin , , , , , Operating income , , , , ( ) , ( ) Net income , , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash dividends declared per common share Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Long-term obligations , , , , , Stockholders’ equity , , , , , ( ) GitHub has been included our consolidated results operations starting the October , acquisition date . ( ) Includes $ billion net income tax benefit related intangible property transfers and $ million net charge related the enactment the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”), which together increased net income and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) $ billion and $ , respectively. Refer Note – Income Taxes the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for further discussion. ( ) Includes $ billion net charge related the enactment the TCJA, which decreased net income and diluted EPS $ billion and $ , respectively. Refer Note – Income Taxes the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for further discussion. ( ) Reflects the impact the adoption new accounting standards fiscal year related revenue recognition and leases. ( ) LinkedIn has been included our consolidated results operations starting the December , acquisition date. ( ) Includes $ million employee severance expenses primarily related our sales and marketing restructuring plan, which decreased operating income, net income, and diluted EPS $ million, $ million, and $ , respectively. ( ) Includes $ million asset impairment charges related our Phone business and $ million restructuring charges associated with our Phone business restructuring plans, which together decreased operating income, net income, and diluted EPS $ billion, $ million, and $ , respectively. PART Item ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT’ DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS The following Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations (“ & ”) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). OVERVIEW Microsoft technology company whose mission empower every person and every organization the planet achieve more. strive create local opportunity, growth, and impact every country around the world. Our platforms and tools help drive small business productivity, large business competitiveness, and public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity. generate revenue offering wide range cloud-based and other services people and businesses; licensing and supporting array software products; designing, manufacturing, and selling devices; and delivering relevant online advertising global audience. Our most significant expenses are related compensating employees; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services; datacenter costs support our cloud-based services; and income taxes. the world responds the outbreak novel strain the coronavirus (“COVID- ”), are working our part ensuring the safety our employees, striving protect the health and well-being the communities which operate, and providing technology and resources our customers help them their best work while remote. Highlights from fiscal year compared with fiscal year included: • Commercial cloud revenue increased % $ billion. • Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased %, driven Office Commercial growth %. • Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased %, with continued growth Office Consumer subscribers million. • LinkedIn revenue increased %. • Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased %, driven Dynamics growth %. • Server products and cloud services revenue increased %, driven Azure growth %. • Enterprise Services revenue increased %. • Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased %. • Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing (“Windows OEM”) revenue increased %. • Surface revenue increased %. • Xbox content and services revenue increased %. • Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, was relatively unchanged. Industry Trends Our industry dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes both technologies and business models. Each industry shift opportunity conceive new products, new technologies, new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. Microsoft, push the boundaries what possible through broad range research and development activities that seek identify and address the changing demands customers and users, industry trends, and competitive forces. PART Item Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The markets for software, devices, and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services the cloud, and some cases, the user’ choice which suite cloud-based services use. must continue evolve and adapt over extended time pace with this changing environment. The investments are making infrastructure and devices will continue increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. hire mix university and industry talent worldwide. compete for talented individuals globally offering exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale resources, the ability grow one’ career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices correlated global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. Our international operations provide significant portion our total revenue and expenses. Many these revenue and expenses are denominated currencies other than the . dollar. result, changes foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. Strengthening the . dollar relative certain foreign currencies did not significantly impact reported revenue expenses from our international operations the first and second quarters fiscal year , and reduced reported revenue and expenses from our international operations the third and fourth quarters fiscal year . Strengthening the . dollar relative certain foreign currencies reduced reported revenue and expenses from our international operations fiscal year . Refer Risk Factors (Part , Item this Form - ) for discussion these factors and other risks. COVID- fiscal year , the COVID- pandemic impacted our business operations, including our employees, customers, partners, and communities, and saw the following trends our financial operating results. the Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud segments, cloud usage and demand increased customers shifted work and learn from home. also experienced slowdown transactional licensing, particularly small and medium businesses, and LinkedIn was negatively impacted the weak job market and reductions advertising spend. the More Personal Computing segment, Windows OEM, Surface, and Gaming benefited from increased demand support remote work-, play-, and learn-from-home scenarios, while Search was negatively impacted reductions advertising spend. The COVID- pandemic may continue impact our business operations and financial operating results, and there substantial uncertainty the nature and degree its continued effects over time. The extent which the COVID- pandemic impacts our business going forward will depend numerous evolving factors cannot reliably predict, including the duration and scope the pandemic; governmental, business, and individuals\' actions response the pandemic; and the impact economic activity including the possibility recession financial market instability. These factors may adversely impact consumer, business, and government spending technology well customers\' ability pay for our products and services ongoing basis. This uncertainty also affects management’ accounting estimates and assumptions, which could result greater variability variety areas that depend these estimates and assumptions, including investments, receivables, and forward-looking guidance. Refer Risk Factors (Part , Item this Form - ) for discussion these factors and other risks. Seasonality Our revenue fluctuates quarterly and generally higher the second and fourth quarters our fiscal year. Second quarter revenue driven corporate year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers, and fourth quarter revenue driven the volume multi-year -premises contracts executed during the period. PART Item Reportable Segments report our financial performance based the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. The segment amounts included & are presented basis consistent with our internal management reporting. All differences between our internal management reporting basis and accounting principles generally accepted the United States America (“GAAP”), along with certain corporate-level and other activity, are included Corporate and Other. Additional information our reportable segments contained Note – Segment Information and Geographic Data the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). Metrics use metrics assessing the performance our business and make informed decisions regarding the allocation resources. disclose metrics enable investors evaluate progress against our ambitions, provide transparency into performance trends, and reflect the continued evolution our products and services. Our commercial and other business metrics are fundamentally connected based how customers use our products and services. The metrics are disclosed the & the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). Financial metrics are calculated based GAAP results and growth comparisons relate the corresponding period last fiscal year. Commercial Our commercial business primarily consists Server products and cloud services, Office Commercial, Windows Commercial, the commercial portion LinkedIn, Enterprise Services, and Dynamics. Our commercial metrics allow management and investors assess the overall health our commercial business and include leading indicators future performance. Commercial remaining performance obligation Commercial portion revenue allocated remaining performance obligations, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will invoiced and recognized revenue future periods Commercial cloud revenue Revenue from our commercial cloud business, which includes Office Commercial, Azure, the commercial portion LinkedIn, Dynamics , and other commercial cloud properties Commercial cloud gross margin percentage Gross margin percentage for our commercial cloud business PART Item Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud Metrics related our Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud segments assess the health our core businesses within these segments. The metrics reflect our cloud and -premises product strategies and trends. Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Office Commercial products and cloud services, including Office subscriptions, the Office portion Microsoft Commercial subscriptions, and Office licensed -premises, comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office Security and Compliance, and Skype for Business, and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”) Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Office Consumer products and cloud services, including Microsoft Consumer (formerly Office Consumer) subscriptions and Office licensed -premises Office Commercial seat growth The number Office Commercial seats end period where seats are paid users covered Office Commercial subscription Office Consumer subscribers The number Office Consumer subscribers end period Dynamics products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Dynamics products and cloud services, including Dynamics , set cloud-based applications across ERP and CRM, Dynamics ERP -premises, and Dynamics CRM -premises LinkedIn revenue growth Revenue from LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Learning Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Sales Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions Server products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Server products and cloud services, including Azure; SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related CALs; and GitHub Enterprise Services revenue growth Revenue from Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services More Personal Computing Metrics related our More Personal Computing segment assess the performance key lines business within this segment. These metrics provide strategic product insights which allow assess the performance across our commercial and consumer businesses. have diversity target audiences and sales motions within the Windows business, monitor metrics that are reflective those varying motions. Windows OEM Pro revenue growth Revenue from sales Windows Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel, which primarily addresses demand the commercial market Windows OEM non-Pro revenue growth Revenue from sales Windows non-Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel, which primarily addresses demand the consumer market Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Windows Commercial products and cloud services, comprising volume licensing the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings Surface revenue Revenue from Surface devices and accessories Xbox content and services revenue growth Revenue from Xbox content and services, comprising Xbox Live (transactions, subscriptions, cloud services, and advertising), video games, and third-party video game royalties Search advertising revenue, excluding TAC, growth Revenue from search advertising excluding traffic acquisition costs (“TAC”) paid Bing Ads network publishers PART Item SUMMARY RESULTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Gross margin , , , % % Operating income , , , % % Net income , , , % % Diluted earnings per share % % Non-GAAP net income , , , % % Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share % % Non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) exclude the net tax impact transfer intangible properties fiscal year and the net tax impact the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) fiscal years and . Refer the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section below for reconciliation our financial results reported accordance with GAAP non-GAAP financial results. Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Revenue increased $ billion %, driven growth across each our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, driven server products and cloud services. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven Office Commercial and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue increased, driven Windows and Surface. Gross margin increased $ billion %, driven growth across each our segments. Gross margin percentage increased, driven sales mix shift higher margin businesses. Commercial cloud gross margin percentage increased points %, primarily driven improvement Azure. Operating income increased $ billion %, driven growth across each our segments. Key changes expenses were: • Cost revenue increased $ billion %, driven growth commercial cloud. • Research and development expenses increased $ billion %, driven investments cloud engineering, LinkedIn, Devices, and Gaming. • Sales and marketing expenses increased $ billion %, driven investments LinkedIn and commercial sales, and increase bad debt expense. • General and administrative expenses increased $ million %, driven charges associated with the closing our Microsoft Store physical locations, offset part reduction business taxes and legal expenses. Gross margin and operating income included unfavorable foreign currency impact % and %, respectively. Prior year net income included $ billion net income tax benefit related intangible property transfers and $ million net charge related the enactment the TCJA, which together resulted increase net income and diluted EPS $ billion and $ , respectively. Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Revenue increased $ billion %, driven growth across each our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, driven server products and cloud services. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven Office and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue increased, driven Surface, Gaming, and Windows. Gross margin increased $ billion %, driven growth across each our segments. Gross margin percentage increased slightly, due gross margin percentage improvement across each our segments and favorable segment sales mix. Gross margin included percentage point improvement commercial cloud, primarily from Azure. PART Item Operating income increased $ billion %, driven growth across each our segments. Key changes expenses were: • Cost revenue increased $ billion %, driven growth commercial cloud, Surface, and Gaming. • Research and development expenses increased $ billion %, driven investments cloud and artificial intelligence (“ ”) engineering, Gaming, LinkedIn, and GitHub. • Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, driven investments commercial sales capacity, LinkedIn, and GitHub, offset part decrease marketing. Sales and marketing expenses included favorable foreign currency impact %. Fiscal year net income included $ billion net income tax benefit related intangible property transfers and $ million net charge related the enactment the TCJA, which together resulted increase net income and diluted EPS $ billion and $ , respectively. Fiscal year net income and diluted EPS were negatively impacted the net charge related the enactment the TCJA, which resulted decrease net income and diluted EPS $ billion and $ , respectively. SEGMENT RESULTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ , $ , $ , % % Intelligent Cloud , , , % % More Personal Computing , , , % % Total $ , $ , $ , % % Operating Income Productivity and Business Processes $ , $ , $ , % % Intelligent Cloud , , , % % More Personal Computing , , , % % Total $ , $ , $ , % % Reportable Segments Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $ billion %. • Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased $ billion %, driven Office Commercial, offset part lower revenue from products licensed -premises, reflecting continued shift cloud offerings. Office Commercial revenue grew %, due seat growth and higher revenue per user. • Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $ million %, driven Microsoft Consumer subscription revenue and transactional strength Japan. Office Consumer subscribers increased % million with increased demand from remote work and learn scenarios. • LinkedIn revenue increased $ billion %, driven growth across all businesses. • Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased %, driven Dynamics growth %. PART Item Operating income increased $ . billion %. • Gross margin increased $ billion %, driven growth Office Commercial and LinkedIn. Gross margin percentage was relatively unchanged, due gross margin percentage improvement LinkedIn, offset part increased mix cloud offerings. • Operating expenses increased $ billion %, driven investments LinkedIn and cloud engineering. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included unfavorable foreign currency impact %, %, and %, respectively. Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $ billion %. • Server products and cloud services revenue increased $ billion %, driven Azure. Azure revenue grew %, due growth our consumption-based services. Server products revenue increased % , due hybrid and premium solutions, well demand related SQL Server and Windows Server end support. • Enterprise Services revenue increased $ million % , driven growth Premier Support Services. Operating income increased $ billion %. • Gross margin increased $ billion %, driven growth server products and cloud services revenue and cloud services scale and efficiencies. Gross margin percentage increased slightly, due gross margin percentage improvement Azure, offset part increased mix cloud offerings. • Operating expenses increased $ billion %, driven investments Azure. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included unfavorable foreign currency impact %, %, and %, respectively. More Personal Computing Revenue increased $ billion %. • Windows revenue increased $ billion %, driven growth Windows Commercial and Windows OEM. Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased %, driven increased demand for Microsoft . Windows OEM revenue increased %, ahead market growth. Windows OEM Pro revenue grew %, driven Windows end support and healthy Windows demand, offset part weakness small and medium businesses. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue grew %, driven consumer demand from remote work and learn scenarios. • Surface revenue increased $ million %, driven increased demand from remote work and learn scenarios. • Gaming revenue increased $ million %, driven increase Xbox content and services, offset part decrease Xbox hardware. Xbox content and services revenue increased $ million % strong prior year comparable, driven growth Minecraft, third-party titles, and subscriptions, accelerated higher engagement during stay- -home guidelines. Xbox hardware revenue declined %, primarily due decrease volume and price consoles sold. • Search advertising revenue increased $ million %. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, was relatively unchanged. Operating income increased $ billion %. • Gross margin increased $ billion %, driven growth Windows, Gaming, and Surface. Gross margin percentage increased, due sales mix shift higher margin businesses and gross margin percentage improvement Gaming. • Operating expenses decreased $ million %, driven the redeployment engineering resources, offset part charges associated with the closing our Microsoft Store physical locations and investments Gaming. PART Item Gross margin and operating income included unfavorable foreign currency impact % and %, respectively. Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $ billion %. • Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased $ billion %, driven Office Commercial, offset part lower revenue from products licensed -premises, reflecting continued shift cloud offerings. Office Commercial grew %, due growth seats and higher average revenue per user. • Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $ million %, driven Microsoft Consumer, due recurring subscription revenue and transactional strength Japan. • LinkedIn revenue increased $ billion %, driven growth across each line business. • Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased %, driven Dynamics growth. Operating income increased $ billion %, including unfavorable foreign currency impact %. • Gross margin increased $ billion %, driven growth Office Commercial and LinkedIn. Gross margin percentage increased slightly, due gross margin percentage improvement LinkedIn and Office Commercial, offset part increased mix cloud offerings. • Operating expenses increased $ million %, driven investments LinkedIn and cloud engineering, offset part decrease marketing. Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $ billion %. • Server products and cloud services revenue, including GitHub, increased $ billion %, driven Azure. Azure revenue growth was %, due higher infrastructure- - -service and platform- - -service consumption-based and per user-based services. Server products revenue increased % , due continued demand for premium versions and hybrid solutions, GitHub, and demand ahead end- -support for SQL Server and Windows Server . • Enterprise Services revenue increased $ million % , driven growth Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Operating income increased $ billion %. • Gross margin increased $ billion %, driven growth server products and cloud services revenue and cloud services scale and efficiencies. Gross margin percentage increased slightly, due gross margin percentage improvement Azure, offset part increased mix cloud offerings. • Operating expenses increased $ billion %, driven investments cloud and engineering, GitHub, and commercial sales capacity. More Personal Computing Revenue increased $ billion %. • Windows revenue increased $ million %, driven growth Windows Commercial and Windows OEM, offset part decline patent licensing. Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased %, driven increased mix multi-year agreements that carry higher -quarter revenue recognition. Windows OEM revenue increased %. Windows OEM Pro revenue grew %, ahead the commercial market, driven healthy Windows demand. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue declined %, below the consumer market, driven continued pressure the entry level category. • Surface revenue increased $ billion %, with strong growth across commercial and consumer. PART Item • Gaming revenue increased $ billion %, driven Xbox software and services growth %, primarily due third-party title strength and subscriptions growth, offset part decline Xbox hardware % primarily due decrease volume consoles sold. • Search advertising revenue increased $ million %. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased %, driven higher revenue per search. Operating income increased $ billion %, including unfavorable foreign currency impact %. • Gross margin increased $ billion %, driven growth Windows, Gaming, and Search. Gross margin percentage increased slightly, due sales mix shift higher gross margin businesses Windows and Gaming. • Operating expenses decreased $ million %. OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Research and development $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % 0ppt 0ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Research and development expenses increased $ billion %, driven investments cloud engineering, LinkedIn, Devices, and Gaming. Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Research and development expenses increased $ billion %, driven investments cloud and engineering, Gaming, LinkedIn, and GitHub. Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Sales and marketing $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % 0ppt ( )ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Sales and marketing expenses increased $ billion %, driven investments LinkedIn and commercial sales, and increase bad debt expense. PART Item Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, driven investments commercial sales capacity, LinkedIn, and GitHub, offset part decrease marketing. Expenses included favorable foreign currency impact %. General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus General and administrative $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % 0ppt 0ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year General and administrative expenses increased $ million %, driven charges associated with the closing our Microsoft Store physical locations, offset part reduction business taxes and legal expenses. Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year General and administrative expenses increased $ million %. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET The components other income (expense), net were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Interest and dividends income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net recognized gains investments , Net gains (losses) derivatives ( ) Net losses foreign currency remeasurements ( ) ( ) ( ) Other, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ $ $ , use derivative instruments : manage risks related foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedging instruments are primarily recognized other income (expense), net. Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Interest and dividends income decreased due lower yields, offset part higher average portfolio balances fixed-income securities. Interest expense decreased due capitalization interest expense and decrease outstanding long-term debt due debt maturities, offset part debt exchange transaction fees and higher finance lease expense. Net recognized gains investments decreased due lower gains and higher other-than-temporary impairments equity investments, offset part gains fixed income securities the current period compared losses the prior period. Net gains derivatives increased due higher gains foreign exchange and equity derivatives. PART Item Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Interest and dividends income increased primarily due higher yields fixed-income securities. Interest expense decreased primarily driven decrease outstanding long-term debt due debt maturities, offset part higher finance lease expense . Net recognized gains investments decreased primarily due lower gains sales equity investments. Net gains derivatives includes gains foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives the current period compared losses the prior period . INCOME TAXES Effective Tax Rate Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Our effective tax rate for fiscal years and was % and %, respectively. The increase our effective tax rate for fiscal year compared fiscal year was primarily due $ billion net income tax benefit the fourth quarter fiscal year related intangible property transfers. Our effective tax rate was lower than the . federal statutory rate, primarily due earnings taxed lower rates foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland and Puerto Rico, and tax benefits relating stock-based compensation. The mix income before income taxes between the . and foreign countries impacted our effective tax rate result the geographic distribution , and customer demand for, our products and services. fiscal year , our . income before income taxes was $ billion and our foreign income before income taxes was $ billion. fiscal year , our . income before income taxes was $ billion and our foreign income before income taxes was $ billion. Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Our effective tax rate for fiscal years and was % and %, respectively. The decrease our effective tax rate for fiscal year compared fiscal year was primarily due the net charge related the enactment the TCJA the second quarter fiscal year and $ billion net income tax benefit the fourth quarter fiscal year related intangible property transfers. Our effective tax rate was lower than the . federal statutory rate, primarily due the tax benefit related intangible property transfers, and earnings taxed lower rates foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. The mix income before income taxes between the . and foreign countries impacted our effective tax rate result the geographic distribution , and customer demand for, our products and services. fiscal year , our . income before income taxes was $ billion and our foreign income before income taxes was $ billion. fiscal year , our . income before income taxes was $ billion and our foreign income before income taxes was $ billion. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act December , , the TCJA was enacted into law, which significantly changed existing . tax law and included numerous provisions that affect our business. recorded provisional net charge $ billion related the enactment the TCJA fiscal year , and adjusted the provisional net charge recording additional tax expense $ million fiscal year pursuant Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin . . fiscal year , response the TCJA and recently issued regulations, transferred certain intangible properties held our foreign subsidiaries the . and Ireland. The transfers intangible properties resulted $ billion net income tax benefit recorded the fourth quarter fiscal year , the value future tax deductions exceeded the current tax liability from foreign jurisdictions and . global intangible low-taxed income tax. Refer Note – Income Taxes the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for further discussion. PART Item Uncertain Tax Positions settled portion the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) audit for tax years fiscal year . February , the IRS withdrew its Revenue Agents Report related unresolved issues for tax years and reopened the audit phase the examination. also settled portion the IRS audit for tax years fiscal year , and portion the IRS audit for tax years fiscal year . remain under audit for tax years . April , the IRS commenced the audit for tax years . June , , the primary unresolved issues for the IRS audits relate transfer pricing, which could have material impact our consolidated financial statements when the matters are resolved. believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. have not received proposed assessment for the unresolved issues and not expect final resolution these issues the next months. Based the information currently available, not anticipate significant increase decrease our tax contingencies for these issues within the next months. are subject income tax many jurisdictions outside the . Our operations certain jurisdictions remain subject examination for tax years , some which are currently under audit local tax authorities. The resolution each these audits not expected material our consolidated financial statements. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures which exclude the net tax impact transfer intangible properties fiscal year and the net tax impact the TCJA fiscal years and . believe these non-GAAP measures aid investors providing additional insight into our operational performance and help clarify trends affecting our business. For comparability reporting, management considers non-GAAP measures conjunction with GAAP financial results evaluating business performance. These non-GAAP financial measures presented should not considered substitute for, superior , the measures financial performance prepared accordance with GAAP. The following table reconciles our financial results reported accordance with GAAP non-GAAP financial results: ( millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Net income $ , $ , $ , % % Net tax impact transfer intangible properties ( , ) * * Net tax impact the TCJA , * * Non-GAAP net income $ , $ , $ , % % Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ % % Net tax impact transfer intangible properties ( ) * * Net tax impact the TCJA * * Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share $ $ $ % % * Not meaningful. PART Item FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $ billion and $ billion June , and . Equity investments were $ billion and $ billion June , and , respectively. Our short-term investments are primarily intended facilitate liquidity and capital preservation. They consist predominantly highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly . dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity our fixed-income portfolio are managed achieve economic returns that correlate certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related these investments insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. Valuation general, and where applicable, use quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities determine the fair value our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments, such . government securities, common and preferred stock, and mutual funds. quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities are not available determine fair value, then use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly indirectly. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments, such commercial paper, certificates deposit, . agency securities, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, corporate notes and bonds, and municipal securities. Level investments are valued using internally-developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured fair value recurring basis using unobservable inputs are immaterial portion our portfolio. majority our investments are priced pricing vendors and are generally Level Level investments these vendors either provide quoted market price active market use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing used mainly when quoted price not available, the investment not priced our pricing vendors, when broker price more reflective fair values the market which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified Level investments because the broker prices these investments based similar assets without applying significant adjustments. addition, all our broker-priced investments have sufficient level trading volume demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review key model inputs, analysis period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Cash from operations increased $ billion $ billion for fiscal year , mainly due increase cash from customers, offset part increase cash used pay income taxes, suppliers, and employees. Cash used financing increased $ billion $ billion for fiscal year , mainly due $ billion cash premium our debt exchange, $ billion increase common stock repurchases, $ billion increase repayments debt, and $ billion increase dividends paid. Cash used investing decreased $ billion $ billion for fiscal year , mainly due $ billion increase cash from net investment purchases, sales, and maturities, offset part $ billion increase additions property and equipment and $ billion other investing facilitate the purchase components. PART Item Fiscal Year Compared with Fiscal Year Cash from operations increased $ billion $ billion for fiscal year , mainly due increase cash received from customers, offset part increase cash paid suppliers and employees and increase cash paid for income taxes. Cash used financing increased $ billion $ billion for fiscal year , mainly due $ billion increase common stock repurchases and $ billion increase dividends paid, offset part $ billion decrease repayments debt, net proceeds from issuance debt. Cash used investing increased $ billion $ billion for fiscal year , mainly due $ billion decrease cash from net investment purchases, sales, and maturities, $ billion increase additions property and equipment, and $ billion increase cash used for acquisitions companies, net cash acquired, and purchases intangible and other assets. Debt issue debt take advantage favorable pricing and liquidity the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds these issuances were will used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment existing debt. June , exchanged portion our existing debt premium for cash and new debt with longer maturities take advantage favorable financing rates the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. Refer Note – Debt the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for further discussion. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related volume licensing programs, which may include Software Assurance (“ ”) and cloud services. Unearned revenue generally invoiced annually the beginning each contract period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for other offerings for which have been paid advance and earn the revenue when transfer control the product service. Refer Note – Accounting Policies the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for further discussion. The following table outlines the expected future recognition unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Three Months Ending September , $ , December , , March , , June , , Thereafter , Total $ , our customers choose license cloud-based versions our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized the time the transaction being recognized over the subscription period upon consumption, applicable. Share Repurchases For fiscal years , , and , repurchased million shares, million shares, and million shares our common stock for $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively, through our share repurchase programs. All repurchases were made using cash resources. Refer Note – Stockholders’ Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for further discussion. Dividends Refer Note – Stockholders’ Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for further discussion. PART Item Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products and certain other matters. Additionally, have agreed cover damages resulting from breaches certain security and privacy commitments our cloud business. evaluating estimated losses these obligations, consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and our ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. These obligations did not have material impact our consolidated financial statements during the periods presented. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the payments due fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) - - Thereafter Total Long-term debt: ( ) Principal payments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Interest payments , , , , , Construction commitments ( ) , , Operating leases, including imputed interest ( ) , , , , , Finance leases, including imputed interest ( ) , , , , Transition tax ( ) , , , , , Purchase commitments ( ) , , , Other long-term liabilities ( ) Total $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Refer Note – Debt the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). ( ) Refer Note – Property and Equipment the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). ( ) Refer Note – Leases the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). ( ) Refer Note – Income Taxes the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). ( ) Amounts represent purchase commitments, including open purchase orders and take- -pay contracts that are not presented construction commitments above. ( ) have excluded long-term tax contingencies, other tax liabilities, and deferred income taxes $ billion from the amounts presented the timing these obligations uncertain. have also excluded unearned revenue and non-cash items. Other Planned Uses Capital will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology, well continue making acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. expect capital expenditures increase coming years support growth our cloud offerings. have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, retail stores, and certain equipment. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability capital resources. Liquidity result the TCJA, are required pay one-time transition tax deferred foreign income not previously subject . income tax. Under the TCJA, the transition tax payable interest-free installments over eight years, with % due each the first five years, % year six, % year seven, and % year eight. have paid transition tax $ billion, which included $ billion for fiscal year . The remaining transition tax $ billion payable over the next six years with final payment fiscal year . During fiscal year , also paid $ billion related the transfer intangible properties that occurred the fourth quarter fiscal year . PART Item expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access capital markets continue sufficient fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such dividends, share repurchases, debt maturities, material capital expenditures, and the transition tax related the TCJA, for least the next months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Refer Note – Accounting Policies the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for further discussion. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management’ application accounting policies, well uncertainty the current economic environment due the recent outbreak COVID- . Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers often include promises transfer multiple products and services customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When cloud-based service includes both -premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment required determine whether the software license considered distinct and accounted for separately, not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office , depend significant level integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together one performance obligation. Revenue from Office recognized ratably over the period which the cloud services are provided. Judgment required determine the stand-alone selling price (“SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. use single amount estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including -premises licenses sold with software updates provided additional charge. use range amounts estimate SSP when sell each the products and services separately and need determine whether there discount allocated based the relative SSP the various products and services. instances where SSP not directly observable, such when not sell the product service separately, determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due the stratification those products and services customers and circumstances. these instances, may use information such the size the customer and geographic region determining the SSP. Due the various benefits from and the nature our program, judgment required assess the pattern delivery, including the exercise pattern certain benefits across our portfolio customers. Our products are generally sold with right return, may provide other credits incentives, and certain instances estimate customer usage our products and services, which are accounted for variable consideration when determining the amount revenue recognize. Returns and credits are estimated contract inception and updated the end each reporting period additional information becomes available. Changes our estimated variable consideration were not material for the periods presented. PART Item Impairment Investment Securities review debt investments quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, and the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost. also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. addition, consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense), net and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry, and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are written down fair value qualitative assessment indicates that the investment impaired and the fair value the investment less than carrying value. perform qualitative assessment quarterly basis. are required estimate the fair value the investment determine the amount the impairment loss. Once investment determined impaired, impairment charge recorded other income (expense), net. Goodwill allocate goodwill reporting units based the reporting unit expected benefit from the business combination. evaluate our reporting units annual basis and, necessary, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (May for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated primarily through the use discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, estimation the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. The estimates used calculate the fair value reporting unit change from year year based operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product are charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, software costs are capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released production. The amortization these costs included cost revenue over the estimated life the products. PART Item Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year, and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity’ financial statements tax returns. recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such position are measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance derecognition income tax assets and liabilities, classification deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our consolidated financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. The TCJA significantly changes existing . tax law and includes numerous provisions that affect our business. Refer Note – Income Taxes the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for further discussion. Inventories Inventories are stated average cost, subject the lower cost net realizable value. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. Net realizable value the estimated selling price less estimated costs completion, disposal, and transportation. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. These reviews include analysis demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis through charge cost revenue. CHANGE ACCOUNTING ESTIMATE July , completed assessment the useful lives our server and network equipment and determined should increase the estimated useful life server equipment from three years four years and increase the estimated useful life network equipment from two years four years. This change accounting estimate will effective beginning fiscal year . Based the carrying amount server and network equipment included “Property and equipment, net” June , , estimated this change will increase our fiscal year operating income $ billion. PART Item STATEMENT MANAGEMENT’ RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management responsible for the preparation the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based management’ estimates and judgments, have been prepared conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems provide reasonable assurance reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing consolidated financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented written policies, organizational structure providing division responsibilities, careful selection and training qualified personnel, and program internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, audit and render opinion the consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely independent directors the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm ensure that each meeting its responsibilities and discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access the Audit Committee. Satya Nadella Chief Executive Officer Amy . Hood Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer PART Item ', 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITAT IVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK RISKS are exposed economic risk from foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, and equity prices. use derivatives instruments manage these risks, however, they may still impact our consolidated financial statements. Foreign Currencies Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency positions, including hedges. Principal currency exposures include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar. Interest Rate Securities held our fixed-income portfolio are subject different interest rate risks based their maturities. manage the average maturity the fixed-income portfolio achieve economic returns that correlate certain global fixed-income indices. Credit Our fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment-grade securities. manage credit exposures relative broad-based indices and facilitate portfolio diversification. Equity Securities held our equity investments portfolio are subject price risk. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The following table sets forth the potential loss future earnings fair values, including associated derivatives, resulting from hypothetical changes relevant market rates prices: ( millions) Risk Categories Hypothetical Change June , Impact Foreign currency–Revenue % decrease foreign exchange rates $ ( , ) Earnings Foreign currency–Investments % decrease foreign exchange rates ( ) Fair Value Interest rate basis point increase . treasury interest rates ( , ) Fair Value Credit basis point increase credit spreads ( ) Fair Value Equity % decrease equity market prices ( ) Earnings PART Item ', 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June , Revenue: Product $ , $ , $ , Service and other , , , Total revenue , , , Cost revenue: Product , , , Service and other , , , Total cost revenue , , , Gross margin , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Operating income , , , Other income, net , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Refer accompanying notes. PART Item COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income (loss), net tax: Net change related derivatives ( ) ( ) Net change related investments , , ( , ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) , , ( , ) Comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , Refer accompanying notes. PART Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ and $ , , Inventories , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net accumulated depreciation $ , and $ , , , Operating lease right- -use assets , , Equity investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net , , Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders’ equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Current portion long-term debt , , Accrued compensation , , Short-term income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Other current liabilities , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt , , Long-term income taxes , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Deferred income taxes Operating lease liabilities , , Other long-term liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders’ equity: Common stock and paid- capital – shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) , ( ) Total stockholders’ equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ , $ , Refer accompanying notes. PART Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash from operations: Depreciation, amortization, and other , , , Stock-based compensation expense , , , Net recognized gains investments and derivatives ( ) ( ) ( , ) Deferred income taxes ( , ) ( , ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Inventories ( ) Other current assets ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other long-term assets ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Accounts payable , , Unearned revenue , , , Income taxes ( , ) , , Other current liabilities , , Other long-term liabilities , ( ) Net cash from operations , , , Financing Repayments short-term debt, maturities days less, net ( , ) Proceeds from issuance debt , Cash premium debt exchange ( , ) Repayments debt ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock cash dividends paid ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash used financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired, and purchases intangible and other assets ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Other, net ( , ) ( ) Net cash used investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Effect foreign exchange rates cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) Net change cash and cash equivalents , ( ) , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and cash equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , Refer accompanying notes. PART Item STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Other, net ( ) ( ) Balance, end period , , , Retained earnings Balance, beginning period , , , Net income , , , Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect accounting changes ( ) Balance, end period , , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) Balance, beginning period ( ) ( , ) Other comprehensive income (loss) , , ( , ) Cumulative effect accounting changes ( ) Balance, end period , ( ) ( , ) Total stockholders’ equity $ , $ , $ , Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ Refer accompanying notes. PART Item NOTES FINANCI STATEMENTS NOTE — ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting Principles Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America (“GAAP”). have recast certain prior period amounts conform the current period presentation. The recast these prior period amounts had impact our consolidated balance sheets, consolidated income statements, net cash from used operating, financing, investing our consolidated cash flows statements. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Estimates and Assumptions Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples estimates and assumptions include: for revenue recognition, determining the nature and timing satisfaction performance obligations, and determining the standalone selling price (“SSP”) performance obligations, variable consideration, and other obligations such product returns and refunds; loss contingencies; product warranties; the fair value and potential impairment goodwill and intangible assets for our reporting units; product life cycles; useful lives our tangible and intangible assets; allowances for doubtful accounts; the market value , and demand for, our inventory; stock-based compensation forfeiture rates; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome uncertain tax positions that have been recognized our consolidated financial statements tax returns; and determining the timing and amount impairments for investments. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management’ estimates and assumptions due risks and uncertainties, including uncertainty the current economic environment due the recent outbreak novel strain the coronavirus (“COVID- ”). July , completed assessment the useful lives our server and network equipment and determined should increase the estimated useful life server equipment from three years four years and increase the estimated useful life network equipment from two years four years . This change accounting estimate will effective beginning fiscal year . Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded other comprehensive income. Revenue Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Product revenue includes sales from operating systems; cross-device productivity applications; server applications; business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; video games; and hardware such PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories. Service and other revenue includes sales from cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content such Office , Azure, Dynamics , and Xbox Live; solution support; and consulting services. Service and other revenue also includes sales from online advertising and LinkedIn. PART Item Revenue Recognition Revenue recognized upon transfer control promised products services customers amount that reflects the consideration expect receive exchange for those products services. enter into contracts that can include various combinations products and services, which are generally capable being distinct and accounted for separate performance obligations. Revenue recognized net allowances for returns and any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted governmental authorities. Nature Products and Services Licenses for -premises software provide the customer with right use the software exists when made available the customer. Customers may purchase perpetual licenses subscribe licenses, which provide customers with the same functionality and differ mainly the duration over which the customer benefits from the software. Revenue from distinct -premises licenses recognized upfront the point time when the software made available the customer. cases where allocate revenue software updates, primarily because the updates are provided additional charge, revenue recognized the updates are provided, which generally ratably over the estimated life the related device license. Certain volume licensing programs, including Enterprise Agreements, include -premises licenses combined with Software Assurance (“ ”). conveys rights new software and upgrades released over the contract period and provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use products more efficiently. -premises licenses are considered distinct performance obligations when sold with . Revenue allocated generally recognized ratably over the contract period customers simultaneously consume and receive benefits, given that comprises distinct performance obligations that are satisfied over time. Cloud services, which allow customers use hosted software over the contract period without taking possession the software, are provided either subscription consumption basis. Revenue related cloud services provided subscription basis recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue related cloud services provided consumption basis, such the amount storage used period, recognized based the customer utilization such resources. When cloud services require significant level integration and interdependency with software and the individual components are not considered distinct, all revenue recognized over the period which the cloud services are provided. Revenue from search advertising recognized when the advertisement appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Revenue from consulting services recognized services are provided. Our hardware generally highly dependent , and interrelated with, the underlying operating system and cannot function without the operating system. these cases, the hardware and software license are accounted for single performance obligation and revenue recognized the point time when ownership transferred resellers directly end customers through retail stores and online marketplaces. Refer Note – Segment Information and Geographic Data for further information, including revenue significant product and service offering. Significant Judgments Our contracts with customers often include promises transfer multiple products and services customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When cloud-based service includes both -premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment required determine whether the software license considered distinct and accounted for separately, not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office , depend significant level integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together one performance obligation. Revenue from Office recognized ratably over the period which the cloud services are provided. PART Item Judgment required determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation. use single amount estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including -premises licenses sold with software updates provided additional charge. use range amounts estimate SSP when sell each the products and services separately and need determine whether there discount allocated based the relative SSP the various products and services. instances where SSP not directly observable, such when not sell the product service separately, determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due the stratification those products and services customers and circumstances. these instances, may use information such the size the customer and geographic region determining the SSP. Due the various benefits from and the nature our program, judgment required assess the pattern delivery, including the exercise pattern certain benefits across our portfolio customers. Our products are generally sold with right return, may provide other credits incentives, and certain instances estimate customer usage our products and services, which are accounted for variable consideration when determining the amount revenue recognize. Returns and credits are estimated contract inception and updated the end each reporting period additional information becomes available. Changes our estimated variable consideration were not material for the periods presented. Contract Balances Timing revenue recognition may differ from the timing invoicing customers. record receivable when revenue recognized prior invoicing, unearned revenue when revenue recognized subsequent invoicing. For multi-year agreements, generally invoice customers annually the beginning each annual coverage period. record receivable related revenue recognized for multi-year -premises licenses have unconditional right invoice and receive payment the future related those licenses. June , and , long-term accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts, was $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and included other long-term assets our consolidated balance sheets. The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ $ Charged costs and other Write-offs ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ Allowance for doubtful accounts included our consolidated balance sheets: ( millions) June , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ $ $ Other long-term assets Total $ $ $ PART Item Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related volume licensing programs, which may include and cloud services. Unearned revenue generally invoiced annually the beginning each contract period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for consulting services performed the future; LinkedIn subscriptions; Office subscriptions; Xbox Live subscriptions; Windows post-delivery support; Dynamics business solutions; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; and other offerings for which have been paid advance and earn the revenue when transfer control the product service. Refer Note – Unearned Revenue for further information, including unearned revenue segment and changes unearned revenue during the period. Payment terms and conditions vary contract type, although terms generally include requirement payment within days. instances where the timing revenue recognition differs from the timing invoicing, have determined our contracts generally not include significant financing component. The primary purpose our invoicing terms provide customers with simplified and predictable ways purchasing our products and services, not receive financing from our customers provide customers with financing. Examples include invoicing the beginning subscription term with revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, and multi-year -premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront. record financing receivables when offer certain our customers the option acquire our software products and services offerings through financing program limited number countries. June , and , our financing receivables, net were $ billion and $ billion, respectively, for short-term and long-term financing receivables, which are included other current assets and other long-term assets our consolidated balance sheets. record allowance cover expected losses based troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Assets Recognized from Costs Obtain Contract with Customer recognize asset for the incremental costs obtaining contract with customer expect the benefit those costs longer than one year. have determined that certain sales incentive programs meet the requirements capitalized. Total capitalized costs obtain contract were immaterial during the periods presented and are included other current and long-term assets our consolidated balance sheets. apply practical expedient expense costs incurred for costs obtain contract with customer when the amortization period would have been one year less. These costs include our internal sales force compensation program and certain partner sales incentive programs have determined annual compensation commensurate with annual sales activities. Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes: manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred include software PCs sold original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”), drive traffic our websites, and acquire online advertising space; costs incurred support and maintain online products and services, including datacenter costs and royalties; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery consulting services; and the amortization capitalized software development costs. Capitalized software development costs are amortized over the estimated lives the products. Product Warranty provide for the estimated costs fulfilling our obligations under hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranties, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and the country which business, but generally include parts and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software warranties, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the estimated life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. PART Item Research and Development Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Such costs related software development are included research and development expense until the point that technological feasibility reached, which for our software products, generally shortly before the products are released production. Once technological feasibility reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized cost revenue over the estimated lives the products. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion fiscal years , , and . Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for stock awards, which include restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance stock units (“PSUs”), measured the fair value the grant date and recognized expense, net estimated forfeitures, over the related service performance period. The fair value stock awards based the quoted price our common stock the grant date less the present value expected dividends not received during the vesting period. measure the fair value PSUs using Monte Carlo valuation model. Compensation cost for RSUs recognized using the straight-line method and for PSUs recognized using the accelerated method. Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan (“ESPP”) measured the discount the employee entitled upon purchase and recognized the period purchase. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, and interest and penalties uncertain tax positions. Certain income and expenses are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. Deferred tax assets are reported net valuation allowance when more likely than not that tax benefit will not realized. All deferred income taxes are classified long-term our consolidated balance sheets. Financial Instruments Investments consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. The fair values these investments approximate their carrying values. general, investments with original maturities greater than three months and remaining maturities less than one year are classified short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. PART Item Debt investments are classified available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes fair value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are recorded other comprehensive income . Debt investments are impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. Fair value calculated based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. employ systematic methodology quarterly basis that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, and the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost. also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. addition, consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health , and business outlook , for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense), net and new cost basis the investment established. Equity investments with readily determinable fair values are measured fair value. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are measured using the equity method measured cost with adjustments for observable changes price impairments (referred the measurement alternative). perform qualitative assessment quarterly basis and recognize impairment there are sufficient indicators that the fair value the investment less than carrying value. Changes value are recorded other income (expense), net. Derivatives Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instruments designated fair value hedges, gains and losses are recognized other income (expense), net with offsetting gains and losses the hedged items. Gains and losses representing hedge components excluded from the assessment effectiveness are recognized other income (expense), net. For derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges, gains and losses are initially reported component other comprehensive income and subsequently recognized earnings with the corresponding hedged item. Gains and losses representing hedge components excluded from the assessment effectiveness are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that are not designated hedges, gains and losses from changes fair values are primarily recognized other income (expense), net. Fair Value Measurements account for certain assets and liabilities fair value. The hierarchy below lists three levels fair value based the extent which inputs used measuring fair value are observable the market. categorize each our fair value measurements one these three levels based the lowest level input that significant the fair value measurement its entirety. These levels are: • Level – inputs are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments active markets. Our Level investments include . government securities, common and preferred stock, and mutual funds. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities include those actively traded exchanges. • Level – inputs are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments active markets, quoted prices for identical similar instruments markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques ( . the Black-Scholes model) for which all significant inputs are observable the market can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies. Our Level investments include commercial paper, certificates deposit, . agency securities, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, corporate notes and bonds, and municipal securities. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities primarily include certain over-the-counter option and swap contracts. PART Item • Level – inputs are generally unobservable and typically reflect management’ estimates assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. The fair values are therefore determined using model-based techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash flow models. Our Level assets and liabilities include investments corporate notes and bonds , municipal securities , and goodwill and intangible assets, when they are recorded fair value due impairment charge. Unobservable inputs used the models are significant the fair values the assets and liabilities. measure equity investments without readily determinable fair values nonrecurring basis. The fair values these investments are determined based valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections. Our other current financial assets and current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying values. Inventories Inventories are stated average cost, subject the lower cost net realizable value. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. Net realizable value the estimated selling price less estimated costs completion, disposal, and transportation. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis through charge cost revenue. Property and Equipment Property and equipment stated cost less accumulated depreciation, and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated useful life the asset the lease term. The estimated useful lives our property and equipment are generally follows: computer software developed acquired for internal use, three seven years ; computer equipment, two three years ; buildings and improvements, five years ; leasehold improvements, three years ; and furniture and equipment, one years . Land not depreciated. Leases determine arrangement lease inception. Operating leases are included operating lease right- -use (“ROU”) assets, other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities our consolidated balance sheets. Finance leases are included property and equipment, other current liabilities, and other long-term liabilities our consolidated balance sheets. ROU assets represent our right use underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized commencement date based the present value lease payments over the lease term. most our leases not provide implicit rate, generally use our incremental borrowing rate based the estimated rate interest for collateralized borrowing over similar term the lease payments commencement date. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives. Our lease terms may include options extend terminate the lease when reasonably certain that will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments recognized straight-line basis over the lease term. have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately. For certain equipment leases, such vehicles, account for the lease and non-lease components single lease component. Additionally, for certain equipment leases, apply portfolio approach effectively account for the operating lease ROU assets and liabilities. Goodwill Goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (May for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. PART Item Intangible Assets Our intangible assets are subject amortization and are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one years . evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically taking into account events circumstances that may warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate the asset may impaired. Recent Accounting Guidance Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance Financial Instruments – Targeted Improvements Accounting for Hedging Activities August , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new guidance related accounting for hedging activities. This guidance expands strategies that qualify for hedge accounting, changes how many hedging relationships are presented the financial statements, and simplifies the application hedge accounting certain situations. adopted the standard effective July , . did not hold derivative instruments requiring adjustment upon adoption, there was impact our consolidated financial statements. Adoption the standard enhanced the presentation the effects our hedging instruments and the hedged items our consolidated financial statements increase the understandability the results our hedging strategies. Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted Financial Instruments – Credit Losses June , the FASB issued new standard replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration broader range reasonable and supportable information inform credit loss estimates. will required use forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivable, loans, and other financial instruments. Credit losses relating available-for-sale debt securities will also recorded through allowance for credit losses rather than reduction the amortized cost basis the securities. The standard will adopted upon the effective date for beginning July , . Adoption the standard will applied using modified retrospective approach through cumulative-effect adjustment retained earnings the effective date align our credit loss methodology with the new standard. have evaluated the impact this standard our consolidated financial statements, including accounting policies, processes, and systems. continue monitor economic implications the COVID- pandemic. Based current market conditions, adoption the standard will not have material impact our consolidated financial statements. Accounting for Income Taxes December , the FASB issued new standard simplify the accounting for income taxes. The guidance eliminates certain exceptions related the approach for intraperiod tax allocation, the methodology for calculating income taxes interim period, and the recognition deferred tax liabilities for outside basis differences related changes ownership equity method investments and foreign subsidiaries. The guidance also simplifies aspects accounting for franchise taxes and enacted changes tax laws rates, and clarifies the accounting for transactions that result step- the tax basis goodwill. The standard will effective for beginning July , , with early adoption permitted. are currently evaluating the impact this standard our consolidated financial statements, including accounting policies, processes, and systems. NOTE — EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) computed based the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS computed based the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards. PART Item The components basic and diluted EPS were follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June , Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect stock-based awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings Per Share Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ Anti-dilutive stock-based awards excluded from the calculations diluted EPS were immaterial during the periods presented. NOTE — OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET The components other income (expense), net were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Interest and dividends income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net recognized gains investments , Net gains (losses) derivatives ( ) Net losses foreign currency remeasurements ( ) ( ) ( ) Other, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ $ $ , Net Recognized Gains (Losses) Investments Net recognized gains (losses) debt investments were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Realized gains from sales available-for-sale securities $ $ $ Realized losses from sales available-for-sale securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Other-than-temporary impairments investments ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Net recognized gains (losses) equity investments were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Net realized gains investments sold $ $ $ , Net unrealized gains investments still held Impairments investments ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ $ $ , PART Item NOTE — INVESTMENTS Investment Components The components investments were follows: ( millions) Fair Value Level Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity Investments June , Changes Fair Value Recorded Other Comprehensive Income Commercial paper Level $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ , $ Certificates deposit Level , , , , . government securities Level , , ( ) , , , . agency securities Level , , , Foreign government bonds Level , ( ) , , Mortgage- and asset-backed securities Level , ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds Level , ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds Level Municipal securities Level ( ) Municipal securities Level Total debt investments $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ Changes Fair Value Recorded Net Income Equity investments Level $ , $ $ $ Equity investments Other , , Total equity investments $ , $ $ $ , Cash $ , $ , $ $ Derivatives, net ( ) Total $ , $ , $ , $ , PART Item ( millions) Fair Value Level Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity Investments June , Changes Fair Value Recorded Other Comprehensive Income Commercial paper Level $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Certificates deposit Level , , , . government securities Level , , ( ) , , . agency securities Level Foreign government bonds Level , ( ) , , , Mortgage- and asset-backed securities Level , ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds Level , ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds Level Municipal securities Level Municipal securities Level Total debt investments $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ Changes Fair Value Recorded Net Income Equity investments Level $ $ $ $ Equity investments Other , , Total equity investments $ , $ $ $ , Cash $ , $ , $ $ Derivatives, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Refer Note – Derivatives for further information the fair value our derivative instruments. Equity investments presented “Other” the tables above include investments without readily determinable fair values measured using the equity method measured cost with adjustments for observable changes price impairments, and investments measured fair value using net asset value practical expedient which are not categorized the fair value hierarchy. June , and , equity investments without readily determinable fair values measured cost with adjustments for observable changes price impairments were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Unrealized Losses Debt Investments Debt investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than months and months greater and their related fair values were follows: Less than Months Months Greater Total Unrealized Losses ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Total Fair Value June , . government and agency securities $ , $ ( ) $ $ $ , $ ( ) Foreign government bonds ( ) ( ) Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , ( ) Corporate notes and bonds ( ) ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ $ , $ ( ) PART Item Less than Months Months Greater Total Unrealized Losses ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Total Fair Value June , . government and agency securities $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Foreign government bonds ( ) ( ) Mortgage- and asset-backed securities ( ) ( ) , ( ) Corporate notes and bonds ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Management does not believe any remaining unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairments based our evaluation available evidence. Debt Investment Maturities ( millions) Cost Basis Estimated Fair Value June , Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through years , , Due after years , , Total $ , $ , NOTE — DERIVATIVES use derivative instruments manage risks related foreign currencies, interest rates, equity prices, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Our derivative programs include strategies that both qualify and not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Foreign Currencies Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Foreign currency risks related certain non- . dollar-denominated investments are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair value hedging instruments. Foreign currency risks related certain Euro-denominated debt are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated cash flow hedging instruments. the past, option and forward contracts were used hedge portion forecasted international revenue and were designated cash flow hedging instruments. Principal currencies hedged included the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar. Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments are also used manage the variability foreign exchange rates certain balance sheet amounts and manage other foreign currency exposures. PART Item Interest Rate Interest rate risks related certain fixed-rate debt are hedged using interest rate swaps that are designated fair value hedging instruments effectively convert the fixed interest rates floating interest rates. Securities held our fixed-income portfolio are subject different interest rate risks based their maturities. manage the average maturity our fixed-income portfolio achieve economic returns that correlate certain broad-based fixed-income indices using exchange-traded option and futures contracts and over-the-counter swap and option contracts. These contracts are not designated hedging instruments and are included “Other contracts” the tables below. Equity Securities held our equity investments portfolio are subject market price risk. times, may hold options, futures, and swap contracts. These contracts are not designated hedging instruments and are included “Other contracts” the tables below. Credit Our fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment-grade securities. use credit default swap contracts manage credit exposures relative broad-based indices and facilitate portfolio diversification. These contracts are not designated hedging instruments and are included “Other contracts” the tables below. Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features Certain our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that require our issued and outstanding long-term unsecured debt maintain investment grade credit rating and require maintain minimum liquidity $ billion. the extent fail meet these requirements, will required post collateral, similar the standard convention related over-the-counter derivatives. June , , our long-term unsecured debt rating was AAA , and cash investments were excess $ billion. result, collateral was required posted. The following table presents the notional amounts our outstanding derivative instruments measured . dollar equivalents: ( millions) June , June , Designated Hedging Instruments Foreign exchange contracts purchased $ $ Foreign exchange contracts sold , , Interest rate contracts purchased , Not Designated Hedging Instruments Foreign exchange contracts purchased , , Foreign exchange contracts sold , , Other contracts purchased , , Other contracts sold PART Item Fair Values Derivative Instruments The following table presents our derivative instruments: Derivative Derivative Derivative Derivative ( millions) Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities June , June , Designated Hedging Instruments Foreign exchange contracts $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Interest rate contracts Not Designated Hedging Instruments Foreign exchange contracts ( ) ( ) Other contracts ( ) ( ) Gross amounts derivatives ( ) ( ) Gross amounts derivatives offset the balance sheet ( ) ( ) Cash collateral received ( ) ( ) Net amounts derivatives $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Reported Short-term investments $ $ $ ( ) $ Other current assets Other long-term assets Other current liabilities ( ) ( ) Other long-term liabilities ( ) ( ) Total $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Gross derivative assets and liabilities subject legally enforceable master netting agreements for which have elected offset were $ million and $ million, respectively, June , , and $ million and $ million, respectively, June , . The following table presents the fair value our derivatives instruments gross basis: ( millions) Level Level Level Total June , Derivative assets $ $ $ $ Derivative liabilities ( ) ( ) June , Derivative assets Derivative liabilities ( ) ( ) PART Item Gains (losses) derivative instruments recognized our consolidated income statements were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Revenue Other Income (Expense), Net Revenue Other Income (Expense), Net Revenue Other Income (Expense), Net Designated Fair Value Hedging Instruments Foreign exchange contracts Derivatives $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Hedged items Excluded from effectiveness assessment Interest rate contracts Derivatives Hedged items ( ) Equity contracts Derivatives ( ) Hedged items Excluded from effectiveness assessment Designated Cash Flow Hedging Instruments Foreign exchange contracts Amount reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income Excluded from effectiveness assessment ( ) ( ) Not Designated Hedging Instruments Foreign exchange contracts ( ) ( ) ( ) Other contracts ( ) Gains (losses), net tax, derivative instruments recognized our consolidated comprehensive income statements were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Designated Cash Flow Hedging Instruments Foreign exchange contracts Included effectiveness assessment $ ( ) $ $ NOTE — INVENTORIES The components inventories were follows: ( millions) June , Raw materials $ $ Work process Finished goods , , Total $ , $ , PART Item NOTE — PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT The components property and equipment were follows: ( millions) June , Land $ , $ , Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements , , Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment , , Total, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Total, net $ , $ , During fiscal years , , and , depreciation expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. have committed $ billion for the construction new buildings, building improvements, and leasehold improvements June , . During fiscal year , recorded impairment charge $ million Property and Equipment, primarily leasehold improvements, due the closing our Microsoft Store physical locations. NOTE — BUSINESS COMBINATIONS GitHub, Inc. October , , acquired GitHub, Inc. (“GitHub”), software development platform, $ billion stock transaction (inclusive total cash payments $ billion respect vested GitHub equity awards and indemnity escrow). The acquisition expected empower developers achieve more every stage the development lifecycle, accelerate enterprise use GitHub, and bring Microsoft’ developer tools and services new audiences. The financial results GitHub have been included our consolidated financial statements since the date the acquisition. GitHub reported part our Intelligent Cloud segment. The allocation the purchase price goodwill was completed June , . The major classes assets and liabilities which allocated the purchase price were follows: ( millions) Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ Goodwill , Intangible assets , Other assets Other liabilities ( ) Total $ , The goodwill recognized connection with the acquisition primarily attributable anticipated synergies from future growth and not expected deductible for tax purposes. assigned the goodwill our Intelligent Cloud segment. PART Item Following are the details the purchase price allocated the intangible assets acquired: ( millions) Amount Weighted Average Life Customer-related $ years Technology-based years Marketing-related years Contract-based years Total $ , years Transactions recognized separately from the purchase price allocation were approximately $ million, primarily related equity awards recognized expense over the related service period. Other During fiscal year , completed acquisitions for $ billion, substantially all which were paid cash. These entities have been included our consolidated results operations since their respective acquisition dates. The effects these business combinations, individually and aggregate, were not material our consolidated results operations. NOTE — GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill were follows: ( millions) June , Acquisitions Other June , Acquisitions Other June , Productivity and Business Processes $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Intelligent Cloud , , ( ) ( ) , , ( ) , More Personal Computing , ( ) , ( ) , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , ( ) Includes goodwill $ billion related GitHub. See Note – Business Combinations for further information . The measurement periods for the valuation assets acquired and liabilities assumed end soon information the facts and circumstances that existed the acquisition dates becomes available, but not exceed months. Adjustments purchase price allocations may require change the amounts allocated goodwill during the periods which the adjustments are determined. Any change the goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations and purchase accounting adjustments are presented “Other” the table above. Also included “Other” are business dispositions and transfers between segments due reorganizations, applicable. Goodwill Impairment test goodwill for impairment annually May the reporting unit level, primarily using discounted cash flow methodology with peer-based, risk-adjusted weighted average cost capital. believe use discounted cash flow approach the most reliable indicator the fair values the businesses. instances impairment were identified our May , , May , , May , tests. June , and , accumulated goodwill impairment was $ billion. PART Item NOTE — INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components intangible assets, all which are finite-lived, were follows: ( millions) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount June , Technology-based $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Customer-related , ( , ) , , ( , ) , Marketing-related , ( , ) , , ( , ) , Contract-based ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , ( ) $ ( , ) $ , ( ) Includes intangible assets $ billion related GitHub. See Note – Business Combinations for further information . material impairments intangible assets were identified during fiscal years , , . estimate that have significant residual value related our intangible assets. The components intangible assets acquired during the periods presented were follows: ( millions) Amount Weighted Average Life Amount Weighted Average Life Year Ended June , Technology-based $ years $ years Customer-related years years Marketing-related years years Contract-based years years Total $ years $ , years Intangible assets amortization expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion for fiscal years , , and , respectively. The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets held June , : ( millions) Year Ending June , $ , , , Thereafter , Total $ , PART Item NOTE — DEBT The components debt were follows: ( millions, issuance calendar year) Maturities (calendar year) Stated Interest Rate Effective Interest Rate June , June , issuance $ billion ( ) % % $ $ issuance $ billion ( ) – % – % % – % , , issuance $ billion ( ) – % – % % – % , , issuance $ billion – % – % % – % , , issuance $ billion ( ) – % – % % – % , , issuance € billion – % – % % – % , , issuance issuance $ billion ( ) – % – % % – % , , issuance $ billion ( ) – % – % % – % , , issuance $ billion ( ) – % – % % – % , , issuance $ billion ( ) – % – % % – % , Total face value , , Unamortized discount and issuance costs ( ) ( ) Hedge fair value adjustments ( ) Premium debt exchange ( ) ( , ) Total debt , , Current portion long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) Long-term debt $ , $ , ( ) June , exchanged portion our existing debt premium for cash and new debt with longer maturities. The premium will amortized over the term the new debt. ( ) Refer Note – Derivatives for further information the interest rate swaps related fixed-rate debt. June , and , the estimated fair value long-term debt, including the current portion, was $ billion and $ billion, respectively. The estimated fair values are based Level inputs. Debt the table above comprised senior unsecured obligations and ranks equally with our other outstanding obligations. Interest paid semi-annually, except for the Euro-denominated debt, which paid annually. The following table outlines maturities our long-term debt, including the current portion, June , : ( millions) Year Ending June , $ , , , , , Thereafter , Total $ , PART Item NOTE — INCOME TAXES Tax Cuts and Jobs Act December , , the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) was enacted into law, which significantly changed existing . tax law and included numerous provisions that affect our business. recorded provisional net charge $ billion related the enactment the TCJA fiscal year , and adjusted the provisional net charge recording additional tax expense $ million fiscal year pursuant Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin . . fiscal year , response the TCJA and recently issued regulations, transferred certain intangible properties held our foreign subsidiaries the . and Ireland. The transfers intangible properties resulted $ billion net income tax benefit recorded the fourth quarter fiscal year , the value future tax deductions exceeded the current tax liability from foreign jurisdictions and . global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) tax. Provision for Income Taxes The components the provision for income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Current Taxes . federal $ , $ , $ , . state and local Foreign , , , Current taxes $ , $ , $ , Deferred Taxes . federal $ $ ( , ) $ ( , ) . state and local ( ) ( , ) ( ) Foreign ( ) ( ) Deferred taxes $ $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , . and foreign components income before income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , . $ , $ , $ , Foreign , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , PART Item Effective Tax Rate The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the . federal statutory rate and our effective rate were follows: Year Ended June , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Foreign earnings taxed lower rates ( )% ( )% ( )% Impact the enactment the TCJA % % % Impact intangible property transfers % ( )% % Foreign-derived intangible income deduction ( )% ( )% % State income taxes, net federal benefit % % % Research and development credit ( )% ( )% ( )% Excess tax benefits relating stock-based compensation ( )% ( )% ( )% Interest, net % % % Other reconciling items, net % % ( )% Effective rate % % % The decrease from the federal statutory rate fiscal year primarily due earnings taxed lower rates foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland and Puerto Rico, and tax benefits relating stock-based compensation. The decrease from the federal statutory rate fiscal year primarily due $ billion net income tax benefit related intangible property transfers, and earnings taxed lower rates foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. The increase from the federal statutory rate fiscal year primarily due the net charge related the enactment the TCJA the second quarter fiscal year , offset part earnings taxed lower rates foreign jurisdictions. fiscal year , our foreign regional operating centers Ireland and Puerto Rico, which are taxed rates lower than the . rate, generated % our foreign income before tax. fiscal years and , our foreign regional operating centers Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico, which are taxed rates lower than the . rate, generated % and % our foreign income before tax, respectively. Other reconciling items, net consists primarily tax credits and GILTI tax. fiscal years , , and , there were individually significant other reconciling items. The increase our effective tax rate for fiscal year compared fiscal year was primarily due $ billion net income tax benefit the fourth quarter fiscal year related intangible property transfers. The decrease our effective tax rate for fiscal year compared fiscal year was primarily due the net charge related the enactment the TCJA the second quarter fiscal year , and $ billion net income tax benefit the fourth quarter fiscal year related intangible property transfers. PART Item The components the deferred income tax assets and liabilities were follows: ( millions) June , Deferred Income Tax Assets Stock-based compensation expense $ $ Accruals, reserves, and other expenses , , Loss and credit carryforwards , Depreciation and amortization , , Leasing liabilities , , Unearned revenue , Other Deferred income tax assets , , Less valuation allowance ( ) ( , ) Deferred income tax assets, net valuation allowance $ , $ , Deferred Income Tax Liabilities Book tax basis differences investments and debt $ ( , ) $ ( ) Unearned revenue ( ) Leasing assets ( , ) ( , ) Deferred GILTI tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Reported Other long-term assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred income tax liabilities ( ) ( ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when the taxes are paid recovered. June , , had federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards $ million, $ million, and $ billion, respectively. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards will expire various years from fiscal through , not utilized. The majority our foreign net operating loss carryforwards not expire. Certain acquired net operating loss carryforwards are subject annual limitation, but are expected realized with the exception those which have valuation allowance. The valuation allowance disclosed the table above relates the foreign net operating loss carryforwards and other net deferred tax assets that may not realized. fiscal year , removed $ billion foreign net operating losses and corresponding valuation allowances result the liquidation foreign subsidiary. There was impact our consolidated financial statements. Income taxes paid, net refunds, were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. Uncertain Tax Positions Gross unrecognized tax benefits related uncertain tax positions June , , , and , were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively, which were primarily included long-term income taxes our consolidated balance sheets. recognized, the resulting tax benefit would affect our effective tax rates for fiscal years , , and $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. PART Item June , , , and , had accrued interest expense related uncertain tax positions $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively, net income tax benefits. The provision for income taxes for fiscal years , , and included interest expense related uncertain tax positions $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively, net income tax benefits. The aggregate changes the gross unrecognized tax benefits related uncertain tax positions were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Beginning unrecognized tax benefits $ , $ , $ , Decreases related settlements ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases for tax positions related the current year , , Increases for tax positions related prior years Decreases for tax positions related prior years ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Decreases due lapsed statutes limitations ( ) ( ) Ending unrecognized tax benefits $ , $ , $ , settled portion the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) audit for tax years fiscal year . February , the IRS withdrew its Revenue Agents Report related unresolved issues for tax years and reopened the audit phase the examination. also settled portion the IRS audit for tax years fiscal year , and portion the IRS audit for tax years fiscal year . remain under audit for tax years . April , the IRS commenced the audit for tax years . June , , the primary unresolved issues for the IRS audits relate transfer pricing, which could have material impact our consolidated financial statements when the matters are resolved. believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. have not received proposed assessment for the unresolved issues and not expect final resolution these issues the next months. Based the information currently available, not anticipate significant increase decrease our tax contingencies for these issues within the next months. are subject income tax many jurisdictions outside the . Our operations certain jurisdictions remain subject examination for tax years , some which are currently under audit local tax authorities. The resolution each these audits not expected material our consolidated financial statements. NOTE — UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue segment was follows: ( millions) June , Productivity and Business Processes $ , $ , Intelligent Cloud , , More Personal Computing , , Total $ , $ , Changes unearned revenue were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ , Deferral revenue , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) Balance, end period $ , PART Item Revenue allocated remaining performance obligations, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will invoiced and recognized revenue future periods, was $ billion June , , which $ billion related the commercial portion revenue. expect recognize approximately % this revenue over the next months and the remainder thereafter. NOTE — LEASES have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, retail stores, and certain equipment. Our leases have remaining lease terms year years, some which include options extend the leases for years , and some which include options terminate the leases within year. The components lease expense were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Operating lease cost $ , $ , $ , Finance lease cost: Amortization right- -use assets $ $ $ Interest lease liabilities Total finance lease cost $ $ $ Supplemental cash flow information related leases was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Cash paid for amounts included the measurement lease liabilities: Operating cash flows from operating leases $ , $ , $ , Operating cash flows from finance leases Financing cash flows from finance leases Right- -use assets obtained exchange for lease obligations: Operating leases , , , Finance leases , , , PART Item Supplemental balance sheet information related leases was follows: ( millions, except lease term and discount rate) June , Operating Leases Operating lease right- -use assets $ , $ , Other current liabilities $ , $ , Operating lease liabilities , , Total operating lease liabilities $ , $ , Finance Leases Property and equipment, cost $ , $ , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Other current liabilities $ $ Other long-term liabilities , , Total finance lease liabilities $ , $ , Weighted Average Remaining Lease Term Operating leases years years Finance leases years years Weighted Average Discount Rate Operating leases % % Finance leases % % Maturities lease liabilities were follows: ( millions) Year Ending June , Operating Leases Finance Leases $ , $ , , , , , Thereafter , , Total lease payments , , Less imputed interest ( , ) ( , ) Total $ , $ , June , , have additional operating and finance leases, primarily for datacenters, that have not yet commenced $ billion and $ billion, respectively. These operating and finance leases will commence between fiscal year and fiscal year with lease terms year years . During fiscal year , recorded impairment charge $ million operating lease right- -use assets due the closing our Microsoft Store physical locations. PART Item NOTE — CONTINGENCIES Patent and Intellectual Property Claims There were patent infringement cases pending against Microsoft June , , none which are material individually aggregate. Antitrust, Unfair Competition, and Overcharge Class Actions Antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits were filed against British Columbia, Ontario, and Quebec, Canada. All three have been certified behalf Canadian indirect purchasers who acquired licenses for Microsoft operating system software and productivity application software between and . The trial the British Columbia action commenced May . Following mediation, the parties agreed global settlement all three Canadian actions, and submitted the proposed settlement agreement the courts all three jurisdictions for approval. The final settlement has been approved the courts British Columbia, Ontario, and Quebec, and the claims administration process will commence once each court approves the form notice the class . Other Antitrust Litigation and Claims China State Administration for Industry and Commerce Investigatio , Microsoft was informed that China’ State Agency for Market Regulation (“SAMR”) (formerly State Administration for Industry and Commerce) had begun formal investigation relating China’ Anti-Monopoly Law, and the SAMR conducted onsite inspections Microsoft offices Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Chengdu. The SAMR has presented its preliminary views certain possible violations China\' Anti-Monopoly Law, and discussions are expected continue. Product-Related Litigation . Cell Phone Litigation Microsoft Mobile , subsidiary Microsoft, along with other handset manufacturers and network operators, defendant lawsuits filed the Superior Court for the District Columbia individual plaintiffs who allege that radio emissions from cellular handsets caused their brain tumors and other adverse health effects. assumed responsibility for these claims our agreement acquire Nokia’ Devices and Services business and have been substituted for the Nokia defendants. Nine these cases were filed and are consolidated for certain pre-trial proceedings; the remaining cases are stayed. separate decision, the Court Appeals for the District Columbia held that adverse health effect claims arising from the use cellular handsets that operate within the . Federal Communications Commission radio frequency emission guidelines (“FCC Guidelines”) are pre-empted federal law. The plaintiffs allege that their handsets either operated outside the FCC Guidelines were manufactured before the FCC Guidelines went into effect. The lawsuits also allege industry-wide conspiracy manipulate the science and testing around emission guidelines. , the defendants the consolidated cases moved exclude the plaintiffs’ expert evidence general causation the basis flawed scientific methodologies. , the trial court granted part and denied part the defendants’ motion exclude the plaintiffs’ general causation experts. The defendants filed interlocutory appeal the District Columbia Court Appeals challenging the standard for evaluating expert scientific evidence. October , the Court Appeals issued its decision adopting the standard advocated the defendants and remanding the cases the trial court for further proceedings under that standard. The plaintiffs have filed supplemental expert evidence, portions which the defendants have moved strike. August , the trial court issued order striking portions the plaintiffs’ expert reports. hearing expected occur the second quarter fiscal year . PART Item Other Contingencies also are subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against , individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our consolidated financial statements, these matters are subject inherent uncertainties and management’ view these matters may change the future. June , , accrued aggregate legal liabilities $ million. While intend defend these matters vigorously, adverse outcomes that estimate could reach approximately $ million aggregate beyond recorded amounts are reasonably possible. Were unfavorable final outcomes occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our consolidated financial statements for the period which the effects become reasonably estimable. NOTE — STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Shares Outstanding Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , Share Repurchases September , , our Board Directors approved share repurchase program authorizing $ billion share repurchases. This share repurchase program commenced December and was completed February . September , , our Board Directors approved share repurchase program authorizing $ billion share repurchases. This share repurchase program commenced February , following completion the program approved September , , has expiration date, and may terminated any time. June , , $ billion remained this $ billion share repurchase program. PART Item repurchased the following shares common stock under the share repurchase programs: ( millions) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount Year Ended June , First Quarter $ , $ , $ , Second Quarter , , , Third Quarter , , , Fourth Quarter , , , Total $ , $ , $ , Shares repurchased during the fourth quarter fiscal year were under the share repurchase program approved September , . Shares repurchased during the third quarter fiscal year were under the share repurchase programs approved both September , and September , . All other shares repurchased were under the share repurchase program approved September , . The above table excludes shares repurchased settle employee tax withholding related the vesting stock awards $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion for fiscal years , , and , respectively. All share repurchases were made using cash resources. Dividends Our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Dividend Per Share Amount Fiscal Year ( millions) September , November , December , $ $ , December , February , March , , March , May , June , , June , August , September , , Total $ $ , Fiscal Year September , November , December , $ $ , November , February , March , , March , May , June , , June , August , September , , Total $ $ , The dividend declared June , was included other current liabilities June , . PART Item NOTE — ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The following table summarizes the changes accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component : ( millions) Year Ended June , Derivatives Balance, beginning period $ $ $ Unrealized gains (losses), net tax $( ) , $ , and $ ( ) Reclassification adjustments for gains included revenue ( ) ( ) Tax expense included provision for income taxes Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Net change related derivatives, net tax $( ) , $( ), and $ ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ ( ) $ $ Investments Balance, beginning period $ , $ ( ) $ , Unrealized gains (losses), net tax $ , , $ , and $( ) , , ( , ) Reclassification adjustments for (gains) losses included other income (expense), net ( , ) Tax expense (benefit) included provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) Net change related investments, net tax $ , , $ , and $( , ) , , ( , ) Cumulative effect accounting changes ( ) Balance, end period $ , $ , $ ( ) Translation Adjustments and Other Balance, beginning period $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Translation adjustments and other, net tax effects $ , $( ), and $ ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), end period $ , $ ( ) $ ( , ) NOTE — EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS grant stock-based compensation employees and directors. June , , aggregate million shares were authorized for future grant under our stock plans. Awards that expire are canceled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. issue new shares Microsoft common stock satisfy vesting awards granted under our stock plans. also have ESPP for all eligible employees. Stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefits related stock-based compensation Stock Plans Stock awards entitle the holder receive shares Microsoft common stock the award vests. Stock awards generally vest over service period four years five years . PART Item Executive Incentive Plan Under the Executive Incentive Plan, the Compensation Committee approves stock awards executive officers and certain senior executives. RSUs generally vest ratably over service period four years . PSUs generally vest over performance period three years . The number shares the PSU holder receives based the extent which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved. Activity for All Stock Plans The fair value stock awards was estimated the date grant using the following assumptions: Year ended June , Dividends per share (quarterly amounts) $ – $ – $ – Interest rates % – % % – % % – % During fiscal year , the following activity occurred under our stock plans: Shares Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value ( millions) Stock Awards Nonvested balance, beginning year $ Granted ( ) Vested ( ) Forfeited ( ) Nonvested balance, end year $ ( ) Includes million, million, and million PSUs granted target and performance adjustments above target levels for fiscal years , , and , respectively. June , , there was approximately $ billion total unrecognized compensation costs related stock awards. These costs are expected recognized over weighted average period three years . The weighted average grant-date fair value stock awards granted was $ , $ , and $ for fiscal years , , and , respectively. The fair value stock awards vested was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, for fiscal years , , and , respectively. Employee Stock Purchase Plan have ESPP for all eligible employees. Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the last trading day each three-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. Employees purchased the following shares during the periods presented: (Shares millions) Year Ended June , Shares purchased Average price per share $ $ $ June , , million shares our common stock were reserved for future issuance through the ESPP. PART Item Savings Plan have savings plans the . that qualify under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, and number savings plans international locations. Eligible . employees may contribute portion their salary into the savings plans, subject certain limitations. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes into the plans, with maximum employer contribution % the IRS contribution limit for the calendar year. Employer-funded retirement benefits for all plans were $ billion, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively, and were expensed contributed. NOTE — SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA its operation the business, management, including our chief operating decision maker, who also our Chief Executive Officer, reviews certain financial information, including segmented internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with GAAP. During the periods presented, reported our financial performance based the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. Our reportable segments are described below. Productivity and Business Processes Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists products and services our portfolio productivity, communication, and information services, spanning variety devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises: • Office Commercial, including Office subscriptions, the Office portion Microsoft Commercial subscriptions, and Office licensed -premises, comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office Security and Compliance, and Skype for Business, and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”). • Office Consumer, including Microsoft Consumer (formerly Office Consumer) subscriptions and Office licensed -premises, and Office Consumer Services, including Skype, Outlook com, and OneDrive. • LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Learning Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Sales Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions. • Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics , set cloud-based applications across ERP and CRM, Dynamics ERP -premises, and Dynamics CRM -premises. Intelligent Cloud Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that can power modern business and developers. This segment primarily comprises: • Server products and cloud services, including Azure; SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related CALs; and GitHub. • Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. More Personal Computing Our More Personal Computing segment consists products and services that put customers the center the experience with our technology. This segment primarily comprises: • Windows, including Windows OEM licensing and other non-volume licensing the Windows operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings; patent licensing; Windows Internet Things; and MSN advertising. • Devices, including Surface and accessories. PART Item • Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising Xbox Live ( transactions, subscriptions, cloud services, and advertising ), video games, and third-party video game royalties. • Search. Revenue and costs are generally directly attributed our segments. However, due the integrated structure our business, certain revenue recognized and costs incurred one segment may benefit other segments. Revenue from certain contracts allocated among the segments based the relative value the underlying products and services, which can include allocation based actual prices charged, prices when sold separately, estimated costs plus profit margin. Cost revenue allocated certain cases based relative revenue methodology. Operating expenses that are allocated primarily include those relating marketing products and services from which multiple segments benefit and are generally allocated based relative gross margin. addition, certain costs incurred corporate level that are identifiable and that benefit our segments are allocated them. These allocated costs include costs : legal, including settlements and fines; information technology; human resources; finance; excise taxes; field selling; shared facilities services; and customer service and support. Each allocation measured differently based the specific facts and circumstances the costs being allocated. Certain corporate-level activity not allocated our segments. Segment revenue and operating income were follows during the periods presented: ( millions) Year Ended June , Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ , $ , $ , Intelligent Cloud , , , More Personal Computing , , , Total $ , $ , $ , Operating Income Productivity and Business Processes $ , $ , $ , Intelligent Cloud , , , More Personal Computing , , , Total $ , $ , $ , sales individual customer country other than the United States accounted for more than % revenue for fiscal years , , . Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which our customers were located, was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes billings OEMs and certain multinational organizations because the nature these businesses and the impracticability determining the geographic source the revenue. PART Item Revenue from external customers, classified significant product and service offerings, was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Server products and cloud services $ , $ , $ , Office products and cloud services , , , Windows , , , Gaming , , , LinkedIn , , , Search advertising , , , Devices , , , Enterprise Services , , , Other , , , Total $ , $ , $ , Our commercial cloud revenue, which includes Office Commercial, Azure, the commercial portion LinkedIn, Dynamics , and other commercial cloud properties, was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. These amounts are primarily included Office products and cloud services, Server products and cloud services, and LinkedIn the table above. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment. impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments and tax assets, classified the location the controlling statutory company and with countries over % the total shown separately, were follows: ( millions) June , United States $ , $ , $ , Ireland , , , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , PART Item NOTE — QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) ( millions, except per share amounts) Quarter Ended September December March June Total Fiscal Year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin , , , , , Operating income , , , , , Net income , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal Year Revenue , , , , , Gross margin , , , , , Operating income , , , , , Net income ( ) , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) ( ) Reflects the $ million net charge related the enactment the TCJA for the second quarter and the $ billion net income tax benefit related the intangible property transfers for the fourth quarter, which together increased net income $ billion for fiscal year . See Note – Income Taxes for further information. ( ) Reflects the net charge related the enactment the TCJA and the net income tax benefit related the intangible property transfers, which decreased (increased) diluted EPS $ for the second quarter, $( ) for the fourth quarter, and $( ) for fiscal year . PART Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Stockholders and the Board Directors Microsoft Corporation Opinion the Financial Statements have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") June , and , the related consolidated statements income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and stockholders\' equity, for each the three years the period ended June , , and the related notes (collectively referred the "financial statements"). our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position the Company June , and , and the results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company\' internal control over financial reporting June , , based criteria established Internal Control — Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion the Company\' internal control over financial reporting. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\' financial statements based our audits. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement, whether due error fraud. Our audits included performing procedures assess the risks material misstatement the financial statements, whether due error fraud, and performing procedures that respond those risks. Such procedures included examining, test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall presentation the financial statements. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matters The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current-period audit the financial statements that were communicated required communicated the audit committee and that ( ) relate accounts disclosures that are material the financial statements and ( ) involved our especially challenging, subjective, complex judgments. The communication critical audit matters does not alter any way our opinion the financial statements, taken whole, and are not, communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions the critical audit matters the accounts disclosures which they relate. PART Item Revenue Recognition – Refer Note the financial statements Critical Audit Matter Description The Company recognizes revenue upon transfer control promised products services customers amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects receive exchange for those products services. The Company offers customers the ability acquire multiple licenses software products and services, including cloud-based services, its customer agreements through its volume licensing programs. Significant judgment exercised the Company determining revenue recognition for these customer agreements, and includes the following: • Determination whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should accounted for separately versus together, such software licenses and related services that are sold with cloud-based services. • The pattern delivery ( ., timing when revenue recognized) for each distinct performance obligation. • Identification and treatment contract terms that may impact the timing and amount revenue recognized ( ., variable consideration, optional purchases, and free services). • Determination stand-alone selling prices for each distinct performance obligation and for products and services that are not sold separately. Given these factors and due the volume transactions, the related audit effort evaluating management\' judgments determining revenue recognition for these customer agreements was extensive and required high degree auditor judgment. How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed the Audit Our principal audit procedures related the Company\' revenue recognition for these customer agreements included the following: • tested the effectiveness controls related the identification distinct performance obligations, the determination the timing revenue recognition, and the estimation variable consideration. • evaluated management\' significant accounting policies related these customer agreements for reasonableness. • selected sample customer agreements and performed the following procedures: – Obtained and read contract source documents for each selection, including master agreements, and other documents that were part the agreement. – Tested management\' identification and treatment contract terms. – Assessed the terms the customer agreement and evaluated the appropriateness management\' application their accounting policies, along with their use estimates, the determination revenue recognition conclusions. • evaluated the reasonableness management\' estimate stand-alone selling prices for products and services that are not sold separately. • tested the mathematical accuracy management\' calculations revenue and the associated timing revenue recognized the financial statements. PART Item Income Taxes – Uncertain Tax Positions – Refer Note the financial statements Critical Audit Matter Description The Company\' long-term income taxes liability includes uncertain tax positions related transfer pricing issues that remain unresolved with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). The Company remains under IRS audit, subject IRS audit, for tax years subsequent . While the Company has settled portion the IRS audits, resolution the remaining matters could have material impact the Company\' financial statements. Conclusions recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions involve significant estimates and management judgment and include complex considerations the Internal Revenue Code, related regulations, tax case laws, and prior-year audit settlements. Given the complexity and the subjective nature the transfer pricing issues that remain unresolved with the IRS, evaluating management\' estimates relating their determination uncertain tax positions required extensive audit effort and high degree auditor judgment, including involvement our tax specialists. How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed the Audit Our principal audit procedures evaluate management\' estimates uncertain tax positions related unresolved transfer pricing issues included the following: • evaluated the appropriateness and consistency management\' methods and assumptions used the identification, recognition, measurement, and disclosure uncertain tax positions, which included testing the effectiveness the related internal controls. • read and evaluated management\' documentation, including relevant accounting policies and information obtained management from outside tax specialists, that detailed the basis the uncertain tax positions. • tested the reasonableness management\' judgments regarding the future resolution the uncertain tax positions, including evaluation the technical merits the uncertain tax positions. • For those uncertain tax positions that had not been effectively settled, evaluated whether management had appropriately considered new information that could significantly change the recognition, measurement disclosure the uncertain tax positions. • evaluated the reasonableness management\' estimates considering how tax law, including statutes, regulations and case law, impacted management\' judgments. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , have served the Company\' auditor since . PART Item , ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures required Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. REPORT MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. Internal control over financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability our financial reporting for external purposes accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary for preparation our consolidated financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures company assets are made accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition company assets that could have material effect our consolidated financial statements would prevented detected timely basis. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting not intended provide absolute assurance that misstatement our consolidated financial statements would prevented detected. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control – Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Based this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’ internal control over financial reporting was effective June , . There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited our internal control over financial reporting June , ; their report included Item . PART Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Stockholders and the Board Directors Microsoft Corporation Opinion Internal Control over Financial Reporting have audited the internal control over financial reporting Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") June , , based criteria established Internal Control — Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO). our opinion, the Company maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control — Integrated Framework ( ) issued COSO. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements and the related notes (collectively referred the "financial statements") and for the year ended June , , the Company and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion those financial statements. Basis for Opinion The Company\' management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting, included the accompanying Report Management Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\' internal control over financial reporting based our audit. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations Internal Control over Financial Reporting company\' internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\' internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\' assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PART , III Item , , , , , ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE list our executive officers and biographical information appears Part , Item this Form - . Information about our directors may found under the caption “Our director nominees” our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held December , (the “Proxy Statement”). Information about our Audit Committee may found under the caption “Board committees” the Proxy Statement. That information incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the “finance code ethics”), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website https://aka FinanceCodeProfessionalConduct. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, will disclose the nature the amendment waiver that website report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions “Director compensation,” “Named executive officer compensation,” “Compensation Committee interlocks and insider participation,” and “Compensation Committee report” incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions “Stock ownership information,” “Principal shareholders” and “Equity compensation plan information” incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information set forth the Proxy Statement under the captions “Director independence” and “Certain relationships and related transactions” incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the headings “Fees billed Deloitte & Touche” and “Policy Audit Committee pre-approval audit and permissible non-audit services independent auditor” and incorporated herein reference. PART Item PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Form - , indexed below. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they either are not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. Index Financial Statements Page ( ) Exhibit Listing Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date - - -3ASR - - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date - - - - - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date - - - - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date - - - * - * - * - * DEF14A Annex * - * - - - * - * - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date * - * - * - * - * - * - ** ** INS Inline XBRL Instance Document —the instance document does not appear the Interactive Data File its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Cover page formatted Inline XBRL and contained Exhibit * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ** Furnished, not filed. PART Item ITEM . FORM - SUMMARY None. SIGNAT URES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, July , . ICROSOFT ORPORATION / / RANK . ROD Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated July , . Signature Title / / OHN . HOMPSON John . Thompson Chairman / / ATYA ADELLA Satya Nadella Director and Chief Executive Officer / / EID OFFMAN Reid Hoffman Director / / UGH . OHNSTON Hugh . Johnston Director / / ERI . IST - TOLL Teri . List-Stoll Director / / ANDRA . ETERSON Sandra . Peterson Director / / ENNY . RITZKER Penny . Pritzker Director / / HARLES . CHARF Charles . Scharf Director / / RNE . ORENSON Arne . Sorenson Director / / OHN . TANTON John . Stanton Director / / MMA . ALMSLEY Emma . Walmsley Director / / ADMASREE ARRIOR Padmasree Warrior Director / / . OOD Amy . Hood Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) / / RANK . ROD Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}