{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively \x93Apple\x94 the \x93Company\x94) designs, manufactures and markets range personal computers, mobile communication and media devices, and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company\x92 products and services include Macintosh (\x93Mac\x94) computers, iPhone, iPad, iPod, Apple , Xserve, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the Mac and iOS operating systems, third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, and variety accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Mac, iPhone, iPad and iPod compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals, through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumer, small and mid-sized business (\x93SMB\x94), education, enterprise, government and creative markets. The Company\x92 fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented this Form - based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. The Company California corporation founded . Business Strategy The Company committed bringing the best user experience its customers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, services, and Internet offerings. The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its unique ability design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software, and services provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company believes continual investment research and development critical the development and enhancement innovative products and technologies. conjunction with its strategy, the Company continues build and host robust platform for the discovery and delivery third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. The iTunes Store includes the App Store and iBookstore, which allow customers discover and download third-party applications and books through either Mac Windows-based computer wirelessly through iPhone, iPad iPod touch. The Company also works support community for the development third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Company\x92 offerings. Additionally, the Company\x92 strategy includes expanding its distribution effectively reach more customers and provide them with high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. The Company therefore uniquely positioned offer superior and well-integrated digital lifestyle and productivity solutions. Consumer and Small and Mid-Sized Business The Company believes high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the Company\x92 products and services greatly enhances its ability attract and retain customers. The Company sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly consumers and businesses through its retail and online stores. The Company has also invested programs enhance reseller sales placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus the Apple platform providing high level integration and support services, and product expertise. September , , the Company had opened total retail stores, including stores the . and stores internationally. The Company has typically located its stores high-traffic locations quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. operating its own stores and locating them desirable high-traffic locations, the Company better positioned control the customer buying experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing the Company\x92 products and related solutions. that end, retail store configurations have evolved into various sizes accommodate market-specific demands. The Company believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers effective way demonstrate the advantages its products over those its competitors. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice, service and training. The stores offer wide selection third-party hardware, software, and various other accessories and peripherals that complement the Company\x92 products. Education Throughout its history, the Company has focused the use technology education and has been committed delivering tools help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement, especially when used support collaboration, information access, and the expression and representation student thoughts and ideas. The Company has designed range products, services and programs address the needs education customers, including individual laptop programs and education road shows. addition, the Company supports mobile learning and real-time distribution and accessibility education related materials through iTunes , which allows students and teachers share and distribute educational media directly through their computers and mobile communication and media devices. The Company sells its products the education market through its direct sales force, select third-party resellers and its online and retail stores. Enterprise, Government and Creative The Company also sells its hardware and software products customers enterprise, government and creative markets each its geographic segments. These markets are also important many third-party developers who provide Mac-compatible hardware and software solutions. Customers these markets utilize the Company\x92 products because their high-powered computing performance and expansion capabilities, networking functionality, and seamless integration with complementary products. The Company designs its high-end hardware solutions incorporate the power, expandability, compatibility and other features desired these markets. Other addition consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government and creative markets, the Company provides hardware and software products and solutions for customers the information technology and scientific markets. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments consist the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail. The Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia, but does not include Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the . and international markets. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading \x93Segment Operating Performance,\x94 and Part , Item this Form - Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Products The Company offers range personal computing products, mobile communication and media devices, and portable digital music players, well variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions and various third-party hardware and software products. addition, the Company offers its own software products, including Mac ® , the Company\x92 proprietary operating system software for the Macintosh ® (\x93Mac\x94); iOS, the Company\x92 proprietary mobile operating system; server software and application software for consumer, education, and business customers. The Company\x92 primary products are discussed below. Mac Hardware Products The Company offers range personal computing products including desktop and portable computers, Xserve ® servers, related devices and peripherals, and various third-party hardware products. The Company\x92 Mac desktop and portable systems feature Intel microprocessors, the Company\x92 Mac Version Snow Leopard ® (\x93Mac Snow Leopard\x94) operating system and the iLife ® suite software for creation and management digital photography, music, movies, DVDs and websites. The Company\x92 desktop computers include iMac ® , Mac ® Pro and Mac ® mini. The iMac desktop computer all- -one design that incorporates display, processor, graphics card, hard drive, optical drive, memory and other components inside single enclosure. The Mac Pro desktop computer targeted business and professional customers and designed meet the performance, expansion, and networking needs the most demanding Mac user. The Mac mini desktop computer compact enclosure. The Company\x92 portable computers include MacBook ® , MacBook ® Pro and MacBook Air ® . MacBook portable computer designed for consumer and education users. MacBook Pro portable computer designed for professionals and consumers. MacBook Air high performance, ultra-slim notebook computer designed for professionals and consumers. iTunes ® iTunes digital music management software (\x93iTunes\x94) application for playing, downloading, and organizing digital audio and video files and available for both Mac and Windows-based computers. iTunes features Ping, music-oriented social network, AirPlay ® wireless music playback, Genius Mixes, Home Sharing, and improved syncing functionality with the Company\x92 mobile communication and media devices. iTunes integrated with the iTunes Store ® , service that allows customers find, purchase, rent, and download third-party digital music, audio books, music videos, short films, television shows, movies, podcasts, games, and other applications. The iTunes Store currently serves customers countries. The iTunes Store includes the Company\x92 App Store\x99 and iBookstore\x99. The App Store allows customers discover and download third-party applications, and the iBookstore features electronic books from major and independent publishers and provides customers place preview and buy books for their mobile communication and media devices. Customers can access the App Store through either Mac Windows-based computer wirelessly through iPhone ® , iPad\x99 iPod touch ® . The iBookstore accessed through the iBooks ® application iPhone, iPad iPod touch. iPhone iPhone combines mobile phone, widescreen iPod ® with touch controls, and Internet communications device single handheld product. Based the Company\x92 Multi-Touch\x99 user interface, iPhone features desktop-class email, web browsing, searching, and maps and compatible with both Macs and Windows-based computers. iPhone automatically syncs content from users\x92 iTunes libraries, well contacts, bookmarks, and email accounts. iPhone allows customers access the iTunes Store download audio and video files, well variety other digital content and applications. June , the Company introduced the iPhone featuring all-new design, FaceTime ® video calling, new high resolution Retina\x99 display, megapixel camera with LED flash and front facing camera, high definition video recording, Apple\x92 processor and -axis gyroscope. addition the Company\x92 own iPhone accessories, third-party iPhone compatible products are available through the Company\x92 online and retail stores and from third parties. The Company has signed multi-year agreements with various cellular network carriers authorizing them distribute and provide cellular network services for iPhones. These agreements are generally not exclusive with specific carrier, except the . iPad January , the Company introduced iPad, multi-purpose mobile device for browsing the web, reading and sending email, viewing photos, watching videos, listening music, playing games, reading -books and more. iPad based the Company\x92 Multi-Touch technology and allows customers connect with their applications and content more interactive way. iPad allows customers access the iTunes Store download audio and video files, well variety other digital content and applications. addition the Company\x92 own iPad accessories, third-party iPad compatible products are available through the Company\x92 online and retail stores and from third parties. iPod The Company\x92 iPod line portable digital music and media players comprised iPod touch, iPod nano ® , iPod shuffle ® and iPod classic ® . All iPods work with iTunes. addition the Company\x92 own iPod accessories, third-party iPod compatible products are available, either through the Company\x92 online and retail stores from third parties. The iPod touch flash-memory-based iPod with widescreen display and Multi-Touch user interface. The Company\x92 latest iPod touch, introduced September , includes features such Retina display, FaceTime video calling, high definition video recording and Game Center. iPod touch allows customers access the iTunes Store download audio and video files, well variety other digital content and applications. The Company\x92 latest iPod nano, introduced September , flash-memory-based iPod that has been redesigned feature the Company\x92 Multi-Touch interface allowing customers navigate their music collection tapping swiping the display. The new iPod nano features polished aluminum and glass enclosure with built- clip. iPod shuffle, which was updated September , flash-memory-based iPod that features clickable control pad control music playback and VoiceOver technology enabling customers hear song titles, artists and playlist names. The iPod classic hard-drive based portable digital music and video player. Displays & Peripheral Products The Company manufactures the Apple Cinema High Definition Display\x99 and sells variety Apple-branded and third-party Mac-compatible peripheral products, including printers, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, and various other computing products and supplies. Apple ® Apple device that allows customers rent and watch movies and television shows their television. Content from Netflix, YouTube, Flickr and MobileMe\x99, well music, photos and videos from Mac Windows-based computer can also wirelessly streamed television through Apple . Software Products and Computer Technologies The Company offers range software products for consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government, and creative customers, including the Company\x92 proprietary Mac and iOS operating system software; server software and related solutions; professional application software; and consumer, education, and business oriented application software. Operating System Software Mac Mac built open-source UNIX-based foundation. Mac Snow Leopard the seventh major release Mac and became available August . Mac Snow Leopard features upgraded speed and performance and includes new version QuickTime ® , support for Microsoft Exchange Server and VoiceOver integration with the Multi-Touch trackpad. Mac offers Stacks, means easily accessing files from the Dock; Finder ® that lets users quickly browse and share files between multiple Macs; Quick Look, way instantly see files without opening application; Spaces ® , feature used create groups applications and instantly switch between them; and Time Machine ® , way automatically back all the contents Mac. iOS iOS the Company\x92 mobile operating system that serves the foundation for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. June , the Company launched iOS , the latest version the Company\x92 mobile operating system. iOS features Multitasking that allows customers move between applications, Folders organize and easily access applications, unified Mail inbox, support for the iAd\x99 mobile advertising platform, and the iBooks reader and iBookstore. The iAd mobile advertising platform provides media rich advertisements which allows mobile device customers engage with without being removed from the applications they are currently using. iOS became available for iPhone , iPhone 3GS, iPhone , and second and third generation iPod touch June , and expected available for iPad November . Certain features the iOS software will not function certain earlier iPhone and iPod touch models. Application Software iLife iLife \x92 the latest version the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital lifestyle application suite included with all Mac computers. iLife features iPhoto ® , iMovie ® , iDVD ® , GarageBand ® , and iWeb\x99. iPhoto the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital photo software application and iMovie the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital video editing software application. iDVD the Company\x92 consumer-oriented software application that enables customers turn iMovie files, QuickTime files, and digital pictures into interactive DVDs. GarageBand the Company\x92 consumer-oriented music creation software application that allows customers play, record and create music. iWeb allows customers create online photo albums, blogs and podcasts, and customize websites using editing tools. iWork ® iWork \x92 the latest version the Company\x92 integrated productivity suite designed help users create, present, and publish documents, presentations, and spreadsheets. iWork \x92 includes updates Pages ® \x92 for word processing and page layout, Keynote ® \x92 for presentations, and Numbers ® \x92 for spreadsheets. January , the Company also introduced new version iWork for iPad, productivity suite including versions Pages, Keynote and Numbers designed specifically for Multi-Touch. Other Application Software The Company also sells various other application software, including Final Cut Studio ® , Final Cut ® Express, Final Cut ® Server, Logic Studio ® , Logic ® Express , Logic Studio ® Pro, and its FileMaker ® Pro database software. Internet Software and Services The Company focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\x92 products and services. The Company\x92 Internet solutions adhere many industry standards provide optimized user experience. Safari ® the latest version the Company\x92 web browser that compatible with Macs and Windows-based computers. MobileMe annual subscription-based suite Internet services that delivers email, contacts and calendars and from native applications iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Macs, and Windows-based computers. Product Support and Services AppleCare ® offers range support options for the Company\x92 customers. These options include assistance that built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, and the AppleCare Protection Plan (\x93APP\x94). APP fee-based service that typically includes two three years phone support and hardware repairs, dedicated web-based support resources, and user diagnostic tools. Markets and Distribution The Company\x92 customers are primarily the consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government and creative markets. The Company utilizes variety direct and indirect distribution channels, such its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware, software, and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available its products, and demonstrate the compatibility the Mac with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers effective way demonstrate the advantages its products over those its competitors and providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting new and retaining existing customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues expand and improve its distribution capabilities expanding the number its own retail stores worldwide. Additionally, the Company has invested programs enhance reseller sales placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus the Apple platform providing high level integration and support services, and product expertise. One the Company\x92 customers accounted for % net sales ; there was single customer that accounted for more than % net sales . Competition The Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. The markets for the Company\x92 products and services are highly competitive. These markets are characterized frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances that have substantially increased the capabilities and use personal computers, mobile communication and media devices, and other digital electronic devices. The Company\x92 competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins gain maintain market share. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results can adversely affected these and other industry-wide downward pressures gross margins. The principal competitive factors include price, product features, relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, availability software and peripherals, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. The Company focused expanding its market opportunities related mobile communication and media devices, including iPhone and iPad. The mobile communications and media device industries are highly competitive and include several large, well-funded and experienced participants. The Company expects competition these industries intensify significantly competitors attempt imitate some the iPhone and iPad features and applications within their own products , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. These industries are characterized aggressive pricing practices, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. The Company\x92 iPod and digital content services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer- -peer music and video services. The Company believes offers superior innovation and integration the entire solution including the hardware (personal computer, iPhone, iPad and iPod), software (iTunes), and distribution digital content and applications (iTunes Store, App Store and iBookstore). Some the Company\x92 current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may able provide such products and services little profit even loss compete with the Company\x92 offerings. Alternatively, these competitors may collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more integrated than those they currently offer. The Company\x92 future financial condition and operating results are substantially dependent the Company\x92 ability continue develop and offer new innovative products and services each the markets competes . Supply Components Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including but not limited microprocessors, enclosures, certain liquid crystal displays (\x93LCDs\x94), certain optical drives, and application-specific integrated circuits (\x93ASICs\x94) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources, which subjects the Company significant supply and pricing risks. Many these and other key components that are available from multiple sources including but not limited NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (\x93DRAM\x94), and certain LCDs, are subject times industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. addition, the Company has entered into certain agreements for the supply key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs favorable pricing, but there guarantee the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar favorable terms, all, upon expiration otherwise obtain favorable pricing the future. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company and other participants the personal computer, and mobile communication and media device industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. addition, the Company uses some custom components that are not common the rest these industries, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company\x92 supply key single-sourced component for new existing product were delayed constrained, such components were available only significantly higher prices, key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers decided concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. Substantially all the Company\x92 Macs, iPhones, iPads, iPods, logic boards and other assembled products are manufactured outsourcing partners, primarily various parts Asia. significant concentration this outsourced manufacturing currently performed only few outsourcing partners the Company, including Hon Hai Precision Industry . Ltd. and Quanta Computer, Inc. The Company\x92 outsourced manufacturing often performed single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced supplier components and manufacturing outsourcing for many the Company\x92 key products, including but not limited final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 Macs, iPhones, iPads and iPods. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company sources components from number suppliers and manufacturing vendors. The loss supply from any these suppliers vendors, whether temporary permanent, could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 business and financial condition. Research and Development Because the industries which the Company competes are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\x92 ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continual and timely flow competitive products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products that expand the range its product offerings and intellectual property through licensing and acquisition third-party business and technology. Total research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its Macs, iPhone, iPad and iPod devices, peripherals, software and services. addition, the Company has registered and has applied register, trademarks and service marks the . and number foreign countries for \x93Apple,\x94 the Apple logo, \x93Macintosh,\x94 \x93Mac,\x94 \x93iPhone,\x94 \x93iPad,\x94 \x93iPod,\x94 \x93iTunes,\x94 \x93iTunes Store,\x94 \x93Apple ,\x94 \x93MobileMe\x94 and numerous other trademarks and service marks. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities its personnel. The Company regularly files patent applications protect inventions arising from its research and development, and currently pursuing thousands patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated portfolio several thousand issued patents the . and worldwide. addition, the Company currently holds copyrights relating certain aspects its products and services. single patent copyright solely responsible for protecting the Company\x92 products. The Company believes the duration the applicable patents has been granted adequate relative the expected lives its products. Due the fast pace innovation and product development, the Company\x92 products are often obsolete before the patents related them expire, and sometimes are obsolete before the patents related them are even granted. Many the Company\x92 products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms; however, there guarantee such licenses could obtained all. Because technological changes the industries which the Company competes, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\x92 products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents intellectual property rights others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data The . represents the Company\x92 largest geographic marketplace. Approximately % the Company\x92 net sales came from sales customers inside the . Final assembly the Company\x92 products currently performed the Company\x92 manufacturing facility Ireland, and external vendors California, Texas, the People\x92 Republic China (\x93China\x94), the Czech Republic and the Republic Korea (\x93Korea\x94). Currently, the supply and manufacture many critical components performed sole-sourced third-party vendors the ., China, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore. Sole-sourced third-party vendors China perform final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 Macs, iPhones, iPads and iPods. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item and Item this Form - and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Seasonal Business The Company has historically experienced increased net sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters compared other quarters its fiscal year due seasonal demand consumer markets related the holiday season and the beginning the school year; however, this pattern has been less pronounced following the introductions iPhone and iPad. This historical pattern should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 future net sales financial performance. Warranty The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty most its hardware products, including Macs, iPhones, iPads and iPods. The basic warranty period typically one year from the date purchase the original end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase the APP, which extends service coverage many the Company\x92 hardware products most its major markets. Backlog the Company\x92 experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions dealers anticipate shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Environmental Laws Compliance with federal, state, local and foreign laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had significant effect the Company\x92 capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. the future, compliance with environmental laws could materially adversely affect the Company. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates including various countries within Europe and Asia and certain states and provinces within North America. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. Employees September , , the Company had approximately , full-time equivalent employees and additional , full-time equivalent temporary employees and contractors. Available Information The Company\x92 Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (\x93Exchange Act\x94), are filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (the \x93SEC\x94). Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available free charge the Company\x92 website www apple com investor when such reports are available the SEC website. The public may read and copy any materials filed the Company with the SEC the SEC\x92 Public Reference Room Street, , Room , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC www sec gov . The contents these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company\x92 references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company\x92 operations and performance depend significantly worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses risk consumers and businesses may continue postpone spending response tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and declines income asset values, which could have material negative effect demand for the Company\x92 products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Company\x92 expectations since the Company generally raises prices goods and services sold outside the . offset the effect strengthening the . dollar. Other factors that could influence demand include increases fuel and other energy costs, conditions the real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Company\x92 products and services and the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. the event renewed financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation the financial services industry, significant financial service institution failures, there could new incremental tightening the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. addition, the risk remains that there could number follow- effects from the credit crisis the Company\x92 business, including the insolvency key outsourced manufacturing partners suppliers their inability obtain credit finance development and manufacture products resulting product delays; inability customers, including channel partners, obtain credit finance purchases the Company\x92 products and customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting the Company\x92 treasury operations. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending gains losses realized the sale exchange financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes fair value derivative instruments. Increased volatility the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk the actual amounts realized the future the Company\x92 financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned them. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue increase the volatility the Company\x92 stock price. Global markets for the Company\x92 products and services are highly competitive and subject rapid technological change. the Company unable compete effectively these markets, its financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company competes highly competitive global markets characterized aggressive price cutting, with resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers. The Company\x92 ability compete successfully depends heavily its ability ensure continuing and timely introduction innovative new products and technologies the marketplace. The Company believes unique that designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications, and related services. result, the Company must make significant investments research and development and such, the Company currently holds significant number patents and copyrights and has registered and has applied register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. contrast, many the Company\x92 competitors seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins other companies infringe the Company\x92 intellectual property, the Company\x92 ability maintain competitive advantage could negatively affected and its financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company faces significant number competitors, many which have broader product lines, lower priced products, and larger installed customer bases. Consolidation this market has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense competitors selling Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. The Company also faces increased competition key market segments, including consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government and creative markets. increasing number Internet devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Company\x92 existing products. The Company currently the only authorized maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results depend substantially the Company\x92 ability continually improve the Mac platform maintain functional and design advantages. Use unauthorized copies the Mac other companies\x92 hardware products may result decreased demand for the Company\x92 hardware products, and could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company currently markets certain mobile communication and media devices, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, well established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships. Additionally, the Company faces significant price competition competitors reduce their selling prices and attempt imitate the Company\x92 product features and applications within their own products , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company also competes with illegitimate ways obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company has only recently entered the mobile communications and media device markets, and many its competitors these markets have significantly greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than the Company. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and experience and lower cost structure, they may able provide such products and services little profit even loss. The Company also expects competition intensify competitors attempt imitate the Company\x92 approach providing these components seamlessly within their individual offerings work collaboratively offer integrated solutions. The Company currently receives subsidies from its exclusive and non-exclusive carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone. There assurance that such subsidies will continued all the same amounts upon renewal the Company\x92 agreements with these carriers agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. There can assurance the Company will able continue provide products and services that compete effectively. remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the industries which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success new product introductions depends number factors including but not limited timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Company\x92 ability manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the availability application software for new products, the effective management purchase commitments and inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities and costs meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect new product introductions and transitions its financial condition and operating results. The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk addition purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete exceed anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. the Company determines that impairment has occurred, records write-down equal the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although the Company believes its provisions related inventory, other assets and purchase commitments are currently adequate, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional related charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the industries which the Company competes. Such charges could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product announcements and shipments. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, open orders and, where appropriate, prepayments, each case based projected demand. Such purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for days. Because the Company\x92 markets are volatile, competitive and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order produce excess insufficient inventories components products. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results have been the past and could the future materially adversely affected the Company\x92 ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Future operating results depend upon the Company\x92 ability obtain key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs favorable prices and sufficient quantities. Because the Company currently obtains certain key components including but not limited microprocessors, enclosures, certain LCDs, certain optical drives, and ASICs, from single limited sources, the Company subject significant supply and pricing risks. Many these and other key components that are available from multiple sources including but not limited NAND flash memory, DRAM and certain LCDs, are subject times industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company has entered into certain agreements for the supply key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs favorable pricing, but there guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar favorable terms, all, upon expiration otherwise obtain favorable pricing the future. The follow- effects from the credit crisis the Company\x92 key suppliers, referred \x93 Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company\x94 above, which incorporated herein reference, also could affect the Company\x92 ability obtain key components . Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company expects experience decreases its gross margin percentage future periods, compared levels achieved during , largely due higher mix new and innovative products that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value customers, and expected and potential future component cost and other cost increases. For additional information refer Part , Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations,\x94 under the subheading \x93Gross Margin,\x94 which incorporated herein reference. The Company and other participants the personal computer, and mobile communication and media device industries compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not common the rest these industries. The Company\x92 new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers decided concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. the supply key single-sourced component for new existing product were delayed constrained, such components were available only significantly higher prices, key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company depends component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the . Substantially all the Company\x92 components and products are manufactured whole part few third-party manufacturers. Many these manufacturers are located outside the ., and are concentrated several general locations. The Company has also outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company\x92 direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity products services, the Company\x92 flexibility respond changing conditions. addition, the Company relies third-party manufacturers adhere the Company\x92 supplier code conduct. Although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible the consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 reputation, financial condition and operating results. Final assembly the Company\x92 products currently performed the Company\x92 manufacturing facility Ireland, and external vendors California, Texas, China, the Czech Republic and Korea. Currently, the supply and manufacture many critical components performed sole-sourced third-party vendors the ., China, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore. Sole-sourced third-party vendors China perform final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 Mac products, iPhones, iPads and iPods. manufacturing logistics these locations disrupted for any reason, including but not limited , natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, political issues, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company relies third-party digital content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with certain third parties offer their digital content through the Company\x92 iTunes Store. The Company\x92 licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and not guarantee the continuation renewal these arrangements reasonable terms, all. Some third-party content providers currently the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license their content the future. Other content owners, providers distributors may seek limit the Company\x92 access , increase the total cost , such content. the Company unable continue offer wide variety content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results may materially adversely affected. Many third-party content providers require that the Company provide certain digital rights management (\x93DRM\x94) and other security solutions. these requirements change, the Company may have develop license new technology provide these solutions. There assurance the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner. addition, certain countries have passed may propose legislation that would force the Company license its DRM, which could lessen the protection content and subject piracy and also could affect arrangements with the Company\x92 content providers. The Company relies access third-party patents and intellectual property, and the Company\x92 future results could materially adversely affected alleged found have infringed intellectual property rights. Many the Company\x92 products are designed include third-party intellectual property, and the future the Company may need seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods. Although the Company believes that, based past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained reasonable terms, there assurance that the necessary licenses would available acceptable terms all. Because technological changes the industries which the Company competes, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance new patents, possible that certain components the Company\x92 products and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents other intellectual property rights third parties. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing such rights. Regardless merit, responding such claims can consume significant time and expense. present, the Company vigorously defending number patent infringement cases, and several pending claims are various stages evaluation. certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements, although assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. the Company found infringing such rights, may required pay substantial damages. there temporary permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain products successful claim infringement against the Company requires pay royalties third party, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected, regardless whether can develop non-infringing technology. While management\x92 opinion the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any known current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights that would individually the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. With the introduction iPhones and enabled iPads, the Company has begun compete with mobile communication and media devices companies that hold significant patent portfolios. Regardless the scope validity such patents the merits any potential patent claims competitors, the Company may have engage protracted litigation, enter into expensive agreements settlements and modify its products. Any these events could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 future performance depends support from third-party software developers. third-party software applications and services cease developed and maintained for the Company\x92 products, customers may choose not buy the Company\x92 products. The Company believes decisions customers purchase its hardware products, including its Macs, iPhones, iPads and iPods, are often based certain extent the availability third-party software applications and services. There assurance that third-party developers will continue develop and maintain applications and services for the Company\x92 products timely basis all, and discontinuance delay these applications and services could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. With respect its Mac products, the Company believes the availability third-party software applications and services depends part the developers\x92 perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\x92 products compared Windows-based products. This analysis may based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may generated, continued acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such applications and services. the Company\x92 minority share the global personal computer market causes developers question the Company\x92 prospects, developers could less inclined develop upgrade software for the Company\x92 products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. The Company\x92 development its own software applications and services may also negatively affect the decisions third-party developers, such Microsoft, Adobe and Google, develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software and services for the Company\x92 products. With respect iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, the Company relies the continued availability and development compelling and innovative software applications. Unlike third-party software applications for Mac products, the software applications for the iPhone, iPad and iPod touch platforms are distributed through single distribution channel, the App Store. The absence multiple distribution channels, which are available for competing platforms, may limit the availability and acceptance third-party applications the Company\x92 customers, thereby causing developers curtail significantly, stop, development for the Company\x92 platforms. addition, iPhone, iPad and iPod touch are subject rapid technological change, and, third-party developers are unable keep with this pace change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and may result dissatisfied customers. Further, the Company develops its own software applications and services, such development may negatively affect the decisions third-party developers develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive applications for the iPhone, iPad and iPod touch platforms. with applications for the Company\x92 Mac products, the availability and development these applications also depend developers\x92 perceptions and analysis the relative benefits developing software for the Company\x92 products rather than its competitors\x92 products, including devices that use competing platforms. developers focus their efforts these competing platforms, the availability and quality applications for the Company\x92 devices may suffer. The Company\x92 future operating performance depends the performance distributors, carriers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, value-added resellers, and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells many its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly customers, certain education customers, cellular network carriers\x92 distribution channels and certain resellers through its online and retail stores. Many resellers operate narrow operating margins and have been negatively affected the past weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion the Company\x92 direct sales conflicting with their business interests distributors and resellers the Company\x92 products. Such perception could discourage resellers from investing resources the distribution and sale the Company\x92 products lead them limit cease distribution those products. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakens, resellers stopped distributing the Company\x92 products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\x92 products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\x92 products. The Company has invested and will continue invest programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\x92 stores with Company employees and contractors and improving product placement displays. These programs could require substantial investment while providing assurance return incremental revenue. The Company\x92 Retail business has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. The Company\x92 retail stores have required substantial fixed investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space, with terms ranging from five years, the majority which are for ten years. Certain stores have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness and serve vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company\x92 more typical retail stores. Due the high fixed cost structure associated with the Retail segment, decline sales the closure poor performance individual multiple stores could result significant lease termination costs, write-offs equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Many factors unique retail operations, some which are beyond the Company\x92 control, pose risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited , macro-economic factors that could have negative effect general retail activity, well the Company\x92 inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation, inability sell third-party products adequate margins, failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners, more challenging environment managing retail operations outside the ., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value retail inventory, and inability obtain and renew leases quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company\x92 ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and the future may invest, new business strategies acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management from current operations, insufficient revenue offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return capital, and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\x92 due diligence. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, assurance can given that such strategies and initiatives will successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 products and services experience quality problems from time time that can result decreased sales and operating margin. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products and services that can contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain \x93bugs\x94 that can unexpectedly interfere with the software\x92 intended operation. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can assurance the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware, software and services sells. Failure could result lost revenue, harm reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. the . the Company relies single cellular network carrier provide service for iPhone. the . the Company has contracted with single carrier provide cellular network services for iPhone exclusive basis. this exclusive carrier cannot successfully compete with other carriers the . market any basis, including but not limited the quality and coverage wireless voice and data services, performance and timely build-out advanced wireless networks, and pricing and other terms conditions customer contracts, this exclusive carrier fails promote iPhone aggressively favor other handsets their promotion and sales activities service plans, sales may materially adversely affected. The Company subject risks associated with laws, regulations and industry-imposed standards related mobile communications and media devices. Laws and regulations related mobile communications and media devices the many jurisdictions which the Company operates are extensive and subject change. Such changes, which could include but are not limited restrictions production, manufacture, distribution, and use the device, locking the device carrier\x92 network, mandating the use the device more than one carrier\x92 network, could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Mobile communication and media devices, such iPhones and enabled iPads, are subject certification and regulation governmental and standardization bodies, well cellular network carriers for use their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result additional testing requirements, product modifications delays product shipment dates, which could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 success depends largely the continued service and availability key personnel. Much the Company\x92 future success depends the continued availability and service key personnel, including its CEO, its executive team and highly skilled employees technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where most the Company\x92 key personnel are located. There can assurance that the Company will continue attract and retain key personnel. Political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage disruption international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have strong negative effect the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Company\x92 business operations are subject interruption natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company\x92 products, make difficult impossible for the Company make and deliver products its customers, including channel partners, receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies the Company\x92 supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could negatively affected more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\x92 manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority the Company\x92 research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are locations that could affected natural disasters. the event natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could required resume operations and the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company may subject information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches data security. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches data security caused such factors, including but not limited , earthquakes, fire, theft, fraud, malicious attack other causes could disrupt the Company\x92 operations causing delays cancellation customer, including channel partner, orders, negatively affecting the Company\x92 online, iTunes, MobileMe and retail offerings and services, impeding the manufacture shipment products, processing transactions and reporting financial results, resulting the unintentional disclosure customer Company information, damage the Company\x92 reputation. While management has taken steps address these concerns implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures, there can assurance that system failure loss data security breach will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\x92 profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company\x92 software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain the Company\x92 other products. Gross margins the Company\x92 hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time result product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company\x92 direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. addition, the Company\x92 gross margin and operating margin percentages, well overall profitability, may materially adversely impacted result shift product, geographic channel mix, new products, component cost increases, strengthening . dollar, price competition. The Company has typically experienced greater net sales the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared the second and third fiscal quarters due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the beginning the school year, respectively. Furthermore, the Company sells more products from time- -time during the third month quarter than does during either the first two months. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\x92 products, issues with new product introductions, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\x92 key logistics, components supply, manufacturing partners, could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 stock price continues volatile. The Company\x92 stock has times experienced substantial price volatility due number factors, including but not limited variations between its actual and anticipated financial results, announcements the Company and its competitors, and uncertainty about current global economic conditions. The stock market whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that may have been unrelated these companies\x92 operating performance. Furthermore, the Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. the Company fails meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline, which could have material adverse impact investor confidence and employee retention. The Company\x92 business subject the risks international operations. The Company derives significant portion its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with . and foreign laws and regulations that apply the Company\x92 international operations, including without limitation import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs doing business foreign jurisdictions, and any such costs, which may rise the future result changes these laws and regulations their interpretation. Furthermore, the Company has implemented policies and procedures designed ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can assurance that the Company\x92 employees, contractors, agents will not violate such laws and regulations the Company\x92 policies. Any such violations could individually the aggregate materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results also could significantly affected other risks associated with international activities, including but not limited , economic and labor conditions, increased duties, taxes and other costs, political instability, and changes the value the . dollar versus local currencies. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could materially adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. Additionally, the Company exposed credit and collectability risk its trade receivables with customers certain international markets. There can assurance can effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non- . dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada and certain parts Asia, well non- . dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weakening foreign currencies relative the . dollar will adversely affect the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally will lead the Company raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company\x92 products. some circumstances, due competition other reasons, the Company may decide not raise local prices the full extent the dollar\x92 strengthening, all, which would adversely affect the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, strengthening foreign currencies, while generally beneficial the Company\x92 foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company reduce international pricing and incur losses its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening foreign currencies may also increase the Company\x92 cost product components denominated those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company has used derivative instruments, such foreign currency forward and option contracts, hedge certain exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset any more than portion the adverse financial effects unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are place. The Company exposed credit risk and fluctuations the market values its investment portfolio. Although the Company has not recognized any significant losses date its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, any significant future declines their market values could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Given the global nature its business, the Company has investments both domestically and internationally. Credit ratings and pricing these investments can negatively impacted liquidity, credit deterioration losses, financial results, other factors. result, the value liquidity the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result material impairment, which could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company exposed credit risk its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements. This risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. substantial majority the Company\x92 outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company\x92 exposure credit and collectability risk its trade receivables are increased certain international markets and its ability mitigate such risks may limited. Cellular network carriers accounted for significant potion the Company\x92 trade receivables September , . The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases components contract manufacturers and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. Two vendors accounted for significant portion the Company\x92 non-trade receivables September , . addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply certain inventory components. While the Company has procedures monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and vendor non-trade receivables well long-term prepayments, there can assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The matters relating the Company\x92 past stock option practices and its restatement consolidated financial statements may result additional litigation. The Company\x92 investigation into its past stock option practices and its restatement prior financial statements the Annual Report Form - for the year ended September , gave rise litigation and government investigations. described Part , Item , \x93Legal Proceedings,\x94 several derivative and class action complaints regarding stock options were filed against the Company and current and former officers and directors. These actions have been dismissed following comprehensive settlement. Two former officers the Company were also named defendants SEC enforcement action, which has been settled. assurance can given that additional actions will not filed against the Company and current and former officers and directors result past stock option practices. such actions are filed and result adverse findings, the remedies could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Unfavorable results legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out the ordinary conduct its business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise the future. Results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Regardless merit, litigation may both time-consuming and disruptive the Company\x92 operations and cause significant expense and diversion management attention. recognition these considerations, the Company may enter into material settlements. Should the Company fail prevail certain matters, should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the Company may faced with significant monetary damages injunctive relief against that would materially adversely affect portion its business and might materially affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company subject risks associated with laws and regulations related health, safety and environmental protection. The Company\x92 products and services, and the production and distribution those goods and services, are subject variety laws and regulations. These may require the Company offer customers the ability return product the end its useful life and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various countries within Europe and Asia and certain states and provinces within North America. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects based the nature its operations and the focus such laws, there assurance such existing laws future laws will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Changes the Company\x92 tax rates, the adoption new . international tax legislation exposure additional tax liabilities could affect its future results. The Company subject taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The Company\x92 future effective tax rates could affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. addition, the current administration and Congress have announced proposals for new . tax legislation that, adopted, could adversely affect the Company\x92 tax rate. Any these changes could have material adverse affect the Company\x92 profitability. The Company also subject the continual examination its income tax returns the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for taxes. There can assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company subject risks associated with the availability and coverage insurance. For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because cost and availability. Because the Company retains some portion its insurable risks, and some cases self-insures completely, unforeseen catastrophic losses excess insured limits could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\x92 headquarters are located Cupertino, California. September , , the Company owned leased approximately million square feet building space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, Canada, and the Asia-Pacific regions. that amount, approximately million square feet was leased, which approximately million square feet was retail building space. Additionally, the Company owns total acres land various locations. September , , the Company owned manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland that also housed customer support call center and facilities Elk Grove, California that included warehousing and distribution operations and customer support call center. addition, the Company owned facilities for research and development and corporate functions Cupertino, California, including land for the future development the Company\x92 second corporate campus. The Company also owned data center Newark, California and land North Carolina for new data center facility currently under construction. Outside the ., the Company owned additional facilities for various purposes. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct its business. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors and continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings September , , the end the annual period covered this report, the Company was subject the various legal proceedings and claims discussed below, well certain other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary course business. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceeding claim that would individually the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition operating results. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\x92 financial condition and results operations. Branning . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs originally filed this purported class action against the Company February , behalf putative classes consumers and resellers and currently pending the Santa Clara Superior Court. general, the consumer plaintiffs allege that the Company \x93shorted\x94 the coverage provided under its warranties and AppleCare Protection Plan extended service contracts and sold plaintiffs used products that were represented new. general, the reseller plaintiffs allege that the Company damaged their businesses opening the Apple retail stores and making misrepresentations connection with doing . The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. Currently plaintiff classes are certified, although reseller plaintiffs\x92 motion certify class Apple specialist resellers, set for hearing November , . Apple & ATTM Antitrust Litigation This purported class action filed against the Company and & Mobility the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The Consolidated Complaint alleges that the Company and & Mobility violated the federal antitrust laws monopolizing and attempting monopolize the \x93aftermarket for voice and data services\x94 for the iPhone and that the Company monopolized and attempted monopolize the \x93aftermarket for software applications for iPhones.\x94 The Consolidated Complaint also alleges that Apple violated numerous laws intentionally \x93bricking\x94 (rendering inoperable) iPhones through the release iPhone software update . July , , the Court granted Apple\x92 motion for summary judgment all plaintiffs\x92 claims related the alleged bricking iPhones. the same July , order the Court granted part plaintiffs\x92 motion for class certification, certifying class related plaintiffs\x92 antitrust claims. The case currently stayed until status conference with the Judge held November , . Mediostream, Inc. . Acer America Corp. . Plaintiff filed this action against the Company, Acer America Corp., Dell, Inc. and Gateway, Inc. August , , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas alleging infringement . Patent . , , . Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. This case currently pending. Mirror Worlds, LLC. . Apple Inc. Plaintiff filed this action against the Company March , , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, alleging that certain the Company\x92 products infringed . Patent Nos. , , , , , and , , . October , , jury returned verdict finding the Company had infringed all three patents, and awarding damages $ million per patent. The jury also found the infringement had been willful. The court has scheduled post verdict motions, and has set hearing date December , . The Company challenging the verdict, and will filing request for judgment matter law, remittitur, and the alternative, request for new trial. Motorola Mobility, Inc. . Apple, Inc. Motorola Mobility Inc. (\x93Motorola\x94) filed complaints against the Company the United States District Court for the Districts Florida, Illinois, Delaware and the International Trade Commission (\x93ITC\x94). These complaints include claims patent infringement related certain the Company\x92 products. Motorola alleges that certain its asserted patents are essential one more the GSM, UMTS, 16e and wireless communications standards, and acknowledges its commitment license these patents fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory (\x93FRAND\x94) terms and conditions. Motorola seeks unspecified FRAND compensation, damages and other declaratory and injunctive relief these pending district court actions well exclusion order from the ITC. These cases are currently pending. Nokia Corporation . Apple Inc.; Apple Inc. . Nokia Corporation Nokia Corporation (\x93Nokia\x94) and the Company have asserted multiple claims against one another lawsuits pending the United States District Courts for the Districts Delaware and Wisconsin, the ITC, the United Kingdom High Court Justice and the German Patent Court Dusseldorf. These cases include claims and counterclaims Nokia and the Company patent infringement related iPhones, iPods, iPads and Apple computers, and Nokia\x92 mobile computing devices. Nokia alleges that certain its asserted patents are essential one more the GSM, UMTS and wireless communications standards, and acknowledges its commitment license them FRAND terms and conditions. Nokia seeks unspecified FRAND compensation, damages and other declaratory and injunctive relief these pending District Court actions well exclusion order from the ITC. The Company also has asserted claims and counterclaims for declaratory judgments non-infringement and invalidity Nokia\x92 asserted patents well for breach contract, promissory estoppel and antitrust violations. The Apple iPod iTunes Antitrust Litigation (formerly Charoensak . Apple Computer, Inc. and Tucker . Apple Computer, Inc.); Somers . Apple Inc. The first-listed action consolidated case filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California combining two cases previously pending under the names Charoensak . Apple Computer Inc. (formerly Slattery . Apple Computer Inc ., filed January , ) and Tucker . Apple Computer, Inc . (filed July , ). The second listed action related complaint, Somers . Apple, Inc., which was filed December , , also the United States District Court for the Northern District California. These cases have been filed behalf purported class direct and indirect purchasers iPods and iTunes Store content, alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music and video purchased the iTunes Store with the purchase iPods and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power under §§ and the Sherman Act, the Cartwright Act, California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act and California monopolization law. The cases are currently pending. Vogel . . Jobs . August , , plaintiffs filed purported shareholder class action the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and certain current and former officers and directors, alleging improper backdating stock option grants maximize certain defendants\x92 profits, failing properly account for those grants and issuing false financial statements. June , , plaintiffs filed another, similar purported shareholder class action the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The parties have reached settlement and have obtained preliminary court approval. PART ', 'item 4. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\x92 Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The Company\x92 common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol AAPL. Price Range Common Stock The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest sales prices for the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ Global Select Market during each quarter the two most recent years. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Fiscal price range per common share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Holders October , , there were , shareholders record. Dividends The Company did not declare pay cash dividends either . The Company anticipates that for the foreseeable future will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Company Stock Performance The following graph shows five-year comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Composite Index, the & Computer Hardware Index, and the Dow Jones . Technology Index. The Company has added the Dow Jones . Technology Index the graph capture the stock performance companies whose products and services more closely relate those the Company. The Dow Jones . Technology Index incorporates software and computer services companies, well technology hardware and equipment companies. The graph assumes $ was invested each the Company\x92 common stock, the & Composite Index, the & Computer Hardware Index, and the Dow Jones . Technology Index September , . Data points the graph are annual. Note that historic stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. *$ invested stock index, including reinvestment dividends. Copyright © & , division The McGraw -Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. Copyright © Dow Jones & . All rights reserved. September , September , September , September , September , September , Apple Inc. $ $ $ $ $ $ & $ $ $ $ $ $ & Computer Hardware $ $ $ $ $ $ Dow Jones Technology $ $ $ $ $ $ ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth below for the five years ended September , , not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x94 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below ( millions, except share amounts which are reflected thousands and per share amounts). Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total long-term obligations ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) The Company did not have any long-term debt during the five years ended September , . Long-term obligations excludes non-current deferred revenue. ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such \x93anticipates,\x94 \x93expects,\x94 \x93believes,\x94 \x93plans,\x94 \x93predicts,\x94 and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\x92 actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled \x93Risk Factors\x94 above, which are incorporated herein reference. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references this report particular years quarters refer the Company\x92 fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters those fiscal years. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets range personal computers, mobile communication and media devices, and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company\x92 products and services include Mac computers, iPhone, iPad, iPod, Apple , Xserve, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the Mac and iOS operating systems, third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, and variety accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Mac, iPhone, iPad and iPod compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores. The Company sells SMB, education, enterprise, government, and creative markets. The Company committed bringing the best user experience its customers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, services, and Internet offerings. The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its unique ability design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software, and services provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company believes continual investment research and development critical the development and enhancement innovative products and technologies. conjunction with its strategy, the Company continues build and host robust platform for the discovery and delivery third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. Within the iTunes Store, the Company has expanded its offerings through the App Store and iBookstore, which allow customers browse, search for, and purchase third-party applications and books through either Mac Windows-based computer wirelessly downloading directly iPhone, iPad iPod touch. The Company also works support community for the development third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Company\x92 offerings. Additionally, the Company\x92 strategy includes expanding its distribution network effectively reach more customers and provide them with high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. The Company therefore uniquely positioned offer superior and well-integrated digital lifestyle and productivity solutions. The Company participates several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Mac computers; mobile communications and media devices with its iPhone, iPad and iPod product families; and distribution third-party digital content and applications with its online iTunes Store. While the Company widely recognized leading innovator the markets where competes, these markets are highly competitive and subject aggressive pricing. remain competitive, the Company believes that increased investment research and development and marketing and advertising necessary maintain expand its position the markets where competes. The Company\x92 research and development spending focused further developing its existing Mac line personal computers; the Mac and iOS operating systems; application software for the Mac; iPhone, iPad and iPod and related software; development new digital lifestyle consumer and professional software applications; and investing new product areas and technologies. The Company also believes increased investment marketing and advertising programs critical increasing product and brand awareness. The Company utilizes variety direct and indirect distribution channels, including its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware, software, and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available its products, and demonstrate the compatibility the Mac with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers effective way demonstrate the advantages its products over those its competitors and providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting new and retaining existing customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues expand and improve its distribution capabilities expanding the number its own retail stores worldwide. Additionally, the Company has invested programs enhance reseller sales placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus the Apple platform providing high level integration and support services, and product expertise. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94) and the Company\x92 discussion and analysis its financial condition and operating results require the Company\x92 management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may material. Management believes the Company\x92 critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, valuation and impairment marketable securities, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Company\x92 senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company\x92 Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers recognition revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale hardware products ( ., Macs, iPhones, iPads, iPods and peripherals), software bundled with hardware that essential the functionality the hardware, and third-party digital content sold the iTunes Store accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types sales transactions: ( ) standalone sales software products, ( ) sales software upgrades and (iii) sales software bundled with hardware not essential the functionality the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include tangible products containing software essential the tangible product\x92 functionality and undelivered software elements relating the tangible product\x92 essential software, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based their relative selling prices. such circumstances, the Company uses hierarchy determine the selling price used for allocating revenue deliverables: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (\x93VSOE\x94), ( ) third-party evidence selling price (\x93TPE\x94) and (iii) best estimate the selling price (\x93ESP\x94). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and the price actually charged the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Company\x92 best estimates what the selling prices elements would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. For all past and current sales iPhone, iPad, Apple and for sales iPod touch beginning June , the Company indicated might from time- -time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features free charge customers. The Company has identified two deliverables arrangements involving the sale these devices. The first deliverable the hardware and software essential the functionality the hardware device delivered the time sale. The second deliverable the embedded right included with the purchase iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Apple receive when-and- -available basis, future unspecified software upgrades and features relating the product\x92 essential software. The Company has allocated revenue between these two deliverables using the relative selling price method. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for the two deliverables, the allocation revenue has been based the Company\x92 ESPs. Amounts allocated the delivered hardware and the related essential software are recognized the time sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated the embedded unspecified software upgrade right are deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the -month estimated life each these devices. All product cost sales, including estimated warranty costs, are recognized the time sale. Costs for engineering and sales and marketing are expensed incurred. the estimated life the hardware product should change, the future rate amortization the revenue allocated the software upgrade right will also change. The Company\x92 process for determining its ESP for deliverables without VSOE TPE involves management\x92 judgment. The Company\x92 process considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable. The Company believes its customers, particularly consumers, would reluctant buy unspecified software upgrade rights related iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Apple . This view primarily based the fact that unspecified upgrade rights not obligate the Company provide upgrades particular time all, and not specify customers which upgrades features will delivered. Therefore, the Company has concluded were sell upgrade rights standalone basis, including those rights associated with iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Apple , the selling price would relatively low. Key factors considered the Company developing the ESPs for these upgrade rights include prices charged the Company for similar offerings, the Company\x92 historical pricing practices, the nature the upgrade rights ( ., unspecified and when-and- -available), and the relative ESP the upgrade rights compared the total selling price the product. The Company may also consider, when appropriate, the impact other products and services, including advertising services, selling price assumptions when developing and reviewing its ESPs for software upgrade rights and related deliverables. The Company may also consider additional factors appropriate, including the pricing competitive alternatives they exist, and product-specific business objectives. the facts and circumstances underlying the factors considered change should future facts and circumstances lead the Company consider additional factors, the Company\x92 ESP for software upgrades related future sales for these devices could change. Beginning the third quarter conjunction with the announcement iOS , the Company\x92 ESPs for the embedded software upgrade rights included with iPhone, iPad and iPod touch reflect the positive financial impact expected the Company result its introduction mobile advertising platform for these devices and the expectation customers regarding software that includes supports advertising component. iOS supports iAd, the Company\x92 new mobile advertising platform, which enables applications iPhone, iPad and iPod touch feature media-rich advertisements within applications. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net the estimated amount refunded, provided the refund amount can reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Company\x92 policy requires that, refunds cannot reliably estimated, revenue not recognized until reliable estimates can made the price protection lapses. For customer incentive programs, the estimated cost these programs recognized the later the date which the Company has sold the product the date which the program offered. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result additional reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Management\x92 estimates are based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which would have negative impact the Company\x92 results operations. Valuation and Impairment Marketable Securities The Company\x92 investments available-for-sale securities are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related changes the fair value investments are included accumulated other comprehensive income, net tax, reported the Company\x92 Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes the fair value investments impact the Company\x92 net income only when such investments are sold other-than-temporary impairment recognized. Realized gains and losses the sale securities are determined specific identification each security\x92 cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio determine any investment other-than-temporarily impaired due changes credit risk other potential valuation concerns, which would require the Company record impairment charge the period any such determination made. making this judgment, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent which the fair value investment less than its cost, the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Company\x92 intent sell, whether more likely than not will required sell, the investment before recovery the investment\x92 amortized cost basis. The Company\x92 assessment whether investment other-than-temporarily impaired not, could change the future due new developments changes assumptions related any particular investment. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The industries which the Company competes are subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. future demand market conditions for the Company\x92 products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required record additional write-downs, which would negatively affect its results operations the period when the write-downs were recorded. The Company records accruals for estimated cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled are expected cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Company\x92 requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\x92 products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\x92 products, the Company may required record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would negatively affect its results operations the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size the installed base products subject warranty protection and adjusts the amounts necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liability would required and could materially affect the Company\x92 results operations. The Company periodically provides updates its applications and operating system software maintain the software\x92 compliance with specifications. The estimated cost develop such updates accounted for warranty cost that recognized the time related software revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals related such updates include the number units delivered, the number updates expected occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost the resources necessary develop these updates. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. accordance with GAAP, the provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company only recognizes the tax benefit from uncertain tax position more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient fully recover the deferred tax assets. the event that the Company determines all part the net deferred tax assets are not realizable the future, the Company will make adjustment the valuation allowance that would charged earnings the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\x92 expectations could have material impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Legal Proceedings\x94 and Note \x93Commitments and Contingencies\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. accordance with GAAP, the Company records liability when probable that loss has been incurred and the amount reasonably estimable. There significant judgment required both the probability determination and whether exposure can reasonably estimated. management\x92 opinion, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition operating results. However, the outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject significant uncertainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Net Sales Fiscal years , and each spanned weeks. additional week included the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. The following table summarizes net sales and Mac unit sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product during the three years ended September , ( millions, except unit sales thousands and per unit amounts): Change Change Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales , % , % , Japan net sales , % , % , Asia-Pacific net sales , % , % , Retail net sales , % , ( )% , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Mac Unit Sales Operating Segment: Americas Mac unit sales , % , % , Europe Mac unit sales , % , % , Japan Mac unit sales % % Asia-Pacific Mac unit sales , % % Retail Mac unit sales , % , % , Total Mac unit sales , % , % , Net Sales Product: Desktops ( ) $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Mac net sales , % , ( )% , iPod , % , ( )% , Other music related products and services ( ) , % , % , iPhone and related products and services ( ) , % , % , iPad and related products and services ( ) , Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , % , ( )% , Software, service and other sales ( ) , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Product: Desktops ( ) , % , ( )% , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Mac unit sales , % , % , Net sales per Mac unit sold ( ) $ , ( )% $ , ( )% $ , iPod unit sales , ( )% , ( )% , Net sales per iPod unit sold ( ) $ % $ ( )% $ iPhone units sold , % , % , iPad units sold , ( ) Includes iMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes MacBook, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro product lines. ( ) Includes iTunes Store sales, iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Includes revenue recognized from iPhone sales, carrier agreements, services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. ( ) Includes revenue recognized from iPad sales, services and Apple-branded and third-party iPad accessories. ( ) Includes sales displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system and application software, third-party software, Mac and Internet services. ( ) Derived dividing total product-related net sales total product-related unit sales. = Not Meaningful Fiscal Year versus Net sales during increased $ billion % compared . Several factors contributed positively these increases, including the following: \x95 Net sales iPhone and related products and services were $ billion representing increase $ billion % compared . Net sales iPhone and related products and services accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for the year. iPhone unit sales totaled million , which represents increase million % compared . iPhone year-over-year growth was attributable primarily continued growth from existing carriers, expanded distribution with new international carriers and resellers, and strong demand for iPhone , which was released the . June and many other countries over the remainder . September , , the Company distributed iPhone countries through carriers. \x95 Net sales iPad and related products and services were $ billion and unit sales iPad were million during . iPad was released the . April and various other countries over the remainder . September , , the Company distributed iPad countries. The Company distributes iPad through its direct channels, certain cellular network carriers\x92 distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. Net sales iPad and related products and services accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for , reflecting the strong demand for iPad during the five months following its release. \x95 Mac net sales increased $ billion % compared , and Mac unit sales increased million % compared . Net sales per Mac unit sold decreased % compared due primarily lower average selling prices Mac portable systems. Net sales the Company\x92 Macs accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales compared % . During , net sales and unit sales the Company\x92 Mac portable systems increased % and %, respectively, primarily attributable strong demand for MacBook Pro, which was updated April . Net sales and unit sales the Company\x92 Mac desktop systems increased % and %, respectively, result higher sales iMac, which was updated July . \x95 Net sales other music related products and services increased $ million % during compared . This increase was due primarily growth the iTunes Store which generated total net sales $ billion for . The results the iTunes Store reflect growth the iTunes App Store, continued growth the installed base iPhone, iPad, and iPod customers, and the expansion third-party audio and video content available for sale and rent via the iTunes Store. The Company continues expand its iTunes content and applications offerings around the world. Net sales other music related products and services accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for . \x95 Net sales iPods increased $ million % during , while iPod unit sales declined % during compared . Net sales per iPod unit sold increased % $ compared , due shift product mix toward iPod touch. iPod touch had strong growth each the Company\x92 reportable operating segments. Net sales iPods accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for the year compared % . Fiscal Year versus Net sales during increased $ billion % compared . Several factors contributed positively these increases, including the following: \x95 iPhone revenue and net sales related products and services amounted $ billion , increase $ billion % compared . The year-over-year iPhone revenue growth largely attributable the year-over-year increase iPhone handset unit sales. iPhone handset unit sales totaled million during , which represents increase million % during compared . This growth attributed primarily expanded distribution and strong overall demand for iPhones. iPhone 3GS was released the . June , and many other countries over the remainder . \x95 Net sales other music-related products and services increased $ million % during compared . The increase was due predominantly increased net sales third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store, which experienced double-digit growth each the Company\x92 geographic segments during compared the same period . The Company believes this attributable primarily continued interest and growth the iTunes App Store, continued growth the Company\x92 base iPhone, iPad, and iPod customers, and the expansion third-party audio and video content available for sale and rent via the iTunes Store Partially offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, net sales during were negatively impacted certain factors, including the following: \x95 Net sales iPods decreased $ billion % during compared . iPod unit sales decreased % during compared . Net sales per iPod unit sold decreased % $ compared , resulting from lower average selling prices across all the iPod product lines, due primarily price reductions taken with the introduction new iPods September and September and stronger . dollar, offset partially higher mix iPod touch sales. \x95 Mac net sales declined % during compared , while Mac unit sales increased % over the same period. Net sales per Mac unit sold decreased % during compared , due primarily lower average selling prices across all Mac portable and desktop systems and stronger . dollar. Net sales Macs accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for . During , Mac portable systems net sales and unit sales increased % and %, respectively, compared . This growth was driven strong demand for MacBook Pro, which was updated June and October , and which experienced double-digit net sales and unit growth each the Company\x92 reportable operating segments compared the same period . The Company also had higher mix Mac portable systems sales, which consistent with overall personal computer market trends. Net sales and unit sales the Company\x92 Mac desktop systems decreased % and %, respectively, during compared . The decrease net sales Mac desktop systems was due mainly shift product mix towards lower-priced desktops, lower average selling prices across all Mac desktop systems and stronger . dollar. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating and reporting segments consist the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail operations. The Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segment results not include the results the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia, but does not include Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores countries, including the . Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . Americas During , net sales the Americas segment increased $ billion % compared . This increase net sales was driven increased iPhone revenue, strong demand for iPad, continued demand for Mac desktop and portable systems, and higher sales third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store. Americas Mac net sales and unit sales increased % and %, respectively, during compared , largely due strong demand for MacBook Pro. The Americas segment represented % and % the Company\x92 total net sales and , respectively. During , net sales the Americas segment increased $ billion % compared . The increase net sales during was attributable the significant year-over-year increase iPhone revenue, higher sales third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store, and increased sales Mac portable systems, partially offset decrease sales Mac desktop systems and iPods. Americas Mac net sales decreased % due primarily lower average selling prices, while Mac unit sales increased % year-over-year basis. The increase Mac unit sales was due primarily strong demand for the MacBook Pro. The Americas segment represented approximately % the Company\x92 total net sales both and . Europe During , net sales Europe increased $ billion % compared . The growth net sales was due mainly significant increase iPhone revenue attributable continued growth from existing carriers and country and carrier expansion, increased sales Mac desktop and portable systems and strong demand for iPad, partially offset stronger . dollar. Europe Mac net sales and unit sales increased % and %, respectively, during the year due strong demand for MacBook Pro and iMac. The Europe segment represented % and % the Company\x92 total net sales and , respectively. During , net sales Europe increased $ billion % compared . The increase net sales was due mainly increased iPhone revenue and strong sales Mac portable systems, offset partially lower net sales Mac desktop systems, iPods, and stronger . dollar. Mac unit sales increased % compared , which was driven primarily increased sales Mac portable systems, particularly MacBook Pro, while total Mac net sales declined result lower average selling prices across all Mac products. iPod net sales decreased year-over-year result lower average selling prices, partially offset increased unit sales the higher priced iPod touch. The Europe segment represented % and % total net sales and , respectively. Japan During , Japan\x92 net sales increased $ billion % compared . The primary contributors this growth were significant year-over-year increases iPhone revenue, strong demand for iPad, and lesser extent strength the Japanese Yen. Mac net sales increased % driven % increase unit sales due primarily strong demand for MacBook Pro and iMac, partially offset lower average selling prices Japan year-over-year basis. The Japan segment represented % and % the Company\x92 total net sales for and , respectively. Japan\x92 net sales increased $ million % compared . The primary contributors this growth were increased iPhone revenue, stronger demand for certain Mac portable systems and iPods, and strength the Japanese Yen, partially offset decreased sales Mac desktop systems. Net sales and unit sales Mac portable systems increased during compared , driven primarily stronger demand for MacBook Pro. Net sales and unit sales iPods increased during compared , driven strong demand for iPod touch and iPod nano. The Japan segment represented approximately % the Company\x92 total net sales both and . Asia-Pacific Net sales Asia-Pacific increased $ billion % during compared . The significant growth Asia-Pacific net sales was due mainly increased iPhone revenue, which was primarily attributable country and carrier expansion and continued growth from existing carriers. Asia-Pacific net sales were also favorably affected strong demand for Mac portable and desktop systems and for iPad. Particularly strong year-over-year growth was experienced China, Korea and Australia. The Asia-Pacific segment represented % and % the Company\x92 total net sales for and , respectively. Net sales Asia-Pacific increased $ million % during compared reflecting strong growth sales iPhone and Mac portable systems, offset partially decline sales iPods and Mac desktop systems, well strengthening the . dollar against the Australian dollar and other Asian currencies. Mac net sales and unit sales grew the Asia-Pacific region % and %, respectively, due increased sales the MacBook Pro. The Asia-Pacific segment represented approximately % the Company\x92 total net sales both and . Retail Retail net sales increased $ billion % during compared . The increase net sales was driven primarily strong demand for iPad, increased sales Mac desktop and portable systems and significant year-over-year increase iPhone revenue. Mac net sales and unit sales grew the Retail segment % and %, respectively, during . The Company opened new retail stores during the year, which were international stores, ending the year with stores open compared stores the end . With average stores and stores opened during and , respectively, average revenue per store increased $ million , compared $ million . The Retail segment represented % and % the Company\x92 total net sales and , respectively. Retail net sales decreased $ million % during compared . The decline net sales was driven largely decrease net sales iPhones, iPods and Mac desktop systems, offset partially strong demand for Mac portable systems. The year-over-year decline Retail net sales was attributable continued third-party channel expansion, particularly the . where most the Company\x92 stores are located, and also reflects the challenging consumer-spending environment . The Company opened new retail stores during , including international stores, ending the year with stores open. This compares stores open September , . With average stores and stores opened during and , respectively, average revenue per store decreased $ million for from $ million . The Retail segment reported operating income $ billion during and $ billion during both and . The increase Retail operating income during compared was attributable higher overall net sales. Despite the decline Retail net sales during compared , the Retail segment\x92 operating income was flat $ billion compared due primarily higher gross margin percentage consistent with that experienced the overall company. Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital asset purchases associated with the Retail segment since its inception totaled $ billion through the end . September , , the Retail segment had approximately , full-time equivalent employees and had outstanding lease commitments associated with retail space and related facilities $ billion. The Company would incur substantial costs were close multiple retail stores and such costs could adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three years ended September , , are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % The gross margin percentage was % compared % . This decline gross margin primarily attributable new products that have higher cost structures, including iPad, partially offset more favorable sales mix iPhone, which has higher gross margin than the Company average. The gross margin percentage was % compared % . The primary contributors the increase compared were favorable sales mix toward products with higher gross margins and lower commodity and other product costs, which were partially offset product price reductions. The Company expects its gross margin percentage decrease future periods compared levels achieved during and anticipates gross margin levels about % the first quarter . This expected decline largely due higher mix new and innovative products that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value customers, and expected and potential future component cost and other cost increases. The foregoing statements regarding the Company\x92 expected gross margin percentage are forward-looking and could differ from anticipated levels because several factors, including but not limited certain those set forth below Part , Item , \x93Risk Factors\x94 under the subheading \x93 Future operating results depend upon the Company\x92 ability obtain key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs favorable prices and sufficient quantities ,\x94 which incorporated herein reference. There can assurance that targeted gross margin percentage levels will achieved. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions and expected and potential increases the cost key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs, well potential increases the costs outside manufacturing services and potential shift the Company\x92 sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. response these competitive pressures, the Company expects will continue take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also affected the Company\x92 ability manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and stimulate demand for certain its products. Due the Company\x92 significant international operations, financial results can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three years ended September , , are follows ( millions, except for percentages): Research and development $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Research and Development Expense (\x93 & \x94) & expense increased % $ million $ billion compared . This increase was due primarily increase headcount and related expenses the current year support expanded & activities. Also contributing this increase & expense was the capitalization software development costs $ million related Mac Snow Leopard. Although total & expense increased % during , declined percentage net sales given the % year-over-year increase net sales . The Company continues believe that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\x92 core business strategy. such, the Company expects make further investments & remain competitive. & expense increased % $ million $ billion compared . This increase was due primarily increase headcount support expanded & activities and higher stock-based compensation expenses. Additionally, $ million software development costs were capitalized related Mac Snow Leopard and excluded from & expense during , compared $ million software development costs capitalized during . Although total & expense increased % during , remained relatively flat percentage net sales given the % increase revenue . Selling, General and Administrative Expense (\x93 & \x94) & expense increased $ billion % $ billion compared . This increase was due primarily the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment, higher spending marketing and advertising programs, increased stock-based compensation expenses and variable costs associated with the overall growth the Company\x92 net sales. & expenses increased $ million % $ billion compared . This increase was due primarily the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets, higher stock-based compensation expense and higher spending marketing and advertising. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for the three years ended September , , are follows ( millions): Interest income $ $ $ Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total other income and expense $ $ $ Total other income and expense decreased $ million % $ million during compared $ million and $ million and , respectively. The overall decrease other income and expense attributable the significant declines interest rates year-over-year basis, partially offset the Company\x92 higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was %, % and % during , and , respectively. Additionally the Company incurred higher premium expenses its foreign exchange option contracts, which further reduced the total other income and expense. During , and , the Company had debt outstanding and accordingly did not incur any related interest expense. Provision for Income Taxes The Company\x92 effective tax rates were %, % and % for , and , respectively. The Company\x92 effective rates for these periods differ from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes are provided because such earnings are intended indefinitely reinvested outside the . The lower effective tax rate compared due primarily increase foreign earnings which . income taxes have not been provided such earnings are intended indefinitely reinvested outside the . September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ billion, and deferred tax liabilities $ billion. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient fully recover the deferred tax assets. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service (the \x93IRS\x94) has completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS currently examining the years through . All IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. During the third quarter , the Company reached tax settlement with the IRS for the years through . addition, the Company subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income taxes the period such resolution occurs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics and for the three years ended September , ( millions): Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ , $ , $ , Inventories $ , $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Annual operating cash flow $ , $ , $ , September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, increase $ billion from September , . The principal component this net increase was the cash generated operating activities $ billion, which was partially offset payments for acquisition property, plant and equipment $ billion and payments made connection with business acquisitions, net cash acquired, $ million. The Company\x92 marketable securities investment portfolio invested primarily highly rated securities, generally with minimum rating single- equivalent. September , and September , , $ billion and $ billion, respectively, the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. Capital Assets The Company\x92 capital expenditures were $ billion during , consisting approximately $ million for retail store facilities and $ billion for other capital expenditures, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment and corporate facilities and infrastructure. The Company\x92 actual cash payments for capital expenditures during were $ billion. The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $ billion for capital expenditures during , including approximately $ million for retail store facilities and approximately $ billion for product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements. Historically the Company has opened between and new retail stores per year. During , the Company expects open new stores, over half which are expected located outside the . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, credit risk support the Company. The following table presents certain payments due the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments September , and excludes amounts already recorded the Consolidated Balance Sheet ( millions): Total Payments Due Less Than Year Payments Due - Years Payments Due - Years Payments Due More Than Years Operating leases $ , $ $ $ $ Purchase obligations , , Other obligations , Total $ , $ , $ $ $ Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases $ billion, $ billion which related the lease retail space and related facilities. The Company\x92 major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding years and generally provide renewal options for terms not exceeding five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five years, the majority which are for ten years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\x92 products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. September , , the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments $ billion. The Company has entered into prepaid long-term supply agreements secure the supply certain inventory components, which generally expire between and . August , the Company entered into long-term supply agreement under which has committed prepay $ million . These prepayments will applied certain inventory component purchases made over the life each respective agreement. Other Obligations Other outstanding obligations were $ billion September , , which related advertising, research and development, product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, Internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. The Company\x92 other non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist primarily deferred tax liabilities, gross unrecognized tax benefits and the related gross interest and penalties. September , , the Company had non-current deferred tax liabilities $ billion. Additionally, September , , the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits $ million and additional $ million for gross interest and penalties classified non-current liabilities. this time, the Company unable make reasonably reliable estimate the timing payments connection with these tax liabilities; therefore, such amounts are not included the above contractual obligation table. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would materially adversely affect its financial condition operating results. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage reduce its exposure such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not materially adversely affected the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. However, given the effective horizons the Company\x92 risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\x92 leading industrialized countries, the Company\x92 interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. such, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, the fair value those investments, well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\x92 investment policy and strategy are focused preservation capital and supporting the liquidity requirements the Company. portion the Company\x92 cash managed external managers within the guidelines the Company\x92 investment policy and objective market benchmarks. The Company\x92 internal portfolio benchmarked against external manager performance. The Company\x92 exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\x92 investment portfolio. The Company typically invests highly rated securities and its policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\x92 investment policy requires investments investment grade, primarily rated single- better, with the objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. All highly liquid investments with initial maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. The Company classifies its marketable securities either short-term long-term based each instrument\x92 underlying contractual maturity date. All short-term marketable securities have maturities less than months, while all long-term marketable securities have maturities ranging from one five years. The Company may sell its investments prior their stated maturities for strategic purposes, anticipation credit deterioration, for duration management. The Company recognized significant net gains losses during , and related such sales. provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, will negatively affect the Company\x92 net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\x92 practice hedge majority its material foreign exchange exposures, typically for three six months. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for variety reasons, including but not limited immateriality, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\x92 foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (\x93VAR\x94) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate thousands random market price paths. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\x92 foreign exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates and the Company\x92 actual exposures and positions. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share amounts which are reflected thousands and per share amounts) Three years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development , , , Selling, general and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , Diluted , , , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively , , Inventories , Deferred tax assets , , Vendor non-trade receivables , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Long-term marketable securities , , Property, plant and equipment, net , , Goodwill Acquired intangible assets, net Other assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , , Deferred revenue , , Total current liabilities , , Deferred revenue \x96 non-current , Other non-current liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\x92 equity: Common stock, par value; , , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive (loss)/income ( ) Total shareholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are reflected thousands) Common Stock Retained Earnings Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) Total Shareholders\x92 Equity Shares Amount Balances September , , $ , $ , $ $ , Cumulative effect change accounting principle Components comprehensive income: Net income , , Change foreign currency translation ( ) ( ) Change unrealized loss available-for-sale securities, net tax ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative instruments, net tax Total comprehensive income , Stock-based compensation Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) Issuance common stock connection with asset acquisition Tax benefit from employee stock plan awards Balances September , , , , ( ) , Components comprehensive income: Net income , , Change foreign currency translation ( ) ( ) Change unrealized loss available-for-sale securities, net tax Change unrealized gain derivative instruments, net tax ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income , Stock-based compensation Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) Tax benefit from employee stock plan awards, including transfer pricing adjustments ( ) ( ) Balances September , , , , , Components comprehensive income: Net income , , Change foreign currency translation Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax Change unrealized gain derivative instruments, net tax ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income , Stock-based compensation Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) Tax benefit from employee stock plan awards, including transfer pricing adjustments Balances September , , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Three years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating activities: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and accretion , Stock-based compensation expense Deferred income tax expense , , Loss disposition property, plant and equipment Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable, net ( , ) ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) Vendor non-trade receivables ( , ) Other current assets ( , ) ( ) Other assets ( ) ( ) Accounts payable , Deferred revenue , Other liabilities ( ) , Cash generated operating activities , , , Investing activities: Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities marketable securities , , , Proceeds from sales marketable securities , , , Purchases other long-term investments ( ) ( ) ( ) Payments made connection with business acquisitions, net cash acquired ( ) ( ) Payments for acquisition property, plant and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments for acquisition intangible assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities: Proceeds from issuance common stock Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation Taxes paid related net share settlement equity awards ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash generated financing activities , , Increase/(decrease) cash and cash equivalents , ( , ) , Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosure: Cash paid for income taxes, net $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x96 Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively \x93Apple\x94 the \x93Company\x94) designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers, mobile communication and media devices, and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, resellers and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Macintosh (\x93Mac\x94), iPhone, iPad and iPod compatible products including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise, government and creative customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94) requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current year\x92 presentation. The Company\x92 fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company\x92 fiscal years , and ended September , , September , and September , , respectively, and included weeks each. additional week included the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years quarters refer the Company\x92 fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters those fiscal years. Retrospective Adoption New Accounting Principles September , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) amended the accounting standards related revenue recognition for arrangements with multiple deliverables and arrangements that include software elements (\x93new accounting principles\x94). The new accounting principles permitted prospective retrospective adoption, and the Company elected retrospective adoption during the first quarter . Under the historical accounting principles, the Company was required account for sales both iPhone and Apple using subscription accounting because the Company indicated might from time- -time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features for those products free charge. Under subscription accounting, revenue and associated product cost sales for iPhone and Apple were deferred the time sale and recognized straight-line basis over each product\x92 estimated economic life. This resulted the deferral significant amounts revenue and cost sales related iPhone and Apple . The new accounting principles affect the Company\x92 accounting for all past and current sales iPhone, iPad, Apple and for sales iPod touch beginning June . The new accounting principles require the Company account for the sale these devices two deliverables. The first deliverable the hardware and software essential the functionality the hardware device delivered the time sale, and the second deliverable the right included with the purchase these devices receive when-and- -available basis, future unspecified software upgrades and features relating the product\x92 essential software. The new accounting principles result the recognition substantial portion the revenue and all product costs from the sale these devices the time their sale. Additionally, the Company required estimate standalone selling price for the unspecified software upgrade rights included with the sale these devices and recognizes that amount ratably over the -month estimated life the related hardware device. Refer the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 and Note , \x93Retrospective Adoption New Accounting Principles\x94 the Form - for additional information the impact adoption the new accounting principles, which sections are incorporated herein reference. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale hardware products ( ., Macs, iPhones, iPads, iPods and peripherals), software bundled with hardware that essential the functionality the hardware, and third-party digital content sold the iTunes Store accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types sales transactions: ( ) standalone sales software products, ( ) sales software upgrades and (iii) sales software bundled with hardware not essential the functionality the hardware. The Company sells software and peripheral products obtained from other companies. The Company generally establishes its own pricing and retains related inventory risk, the primary obligor sales transactions with its customers, and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. Accordingly, the Company generally recognizes revenue for the sale products obtained from other companies based the gross amount billed. For certain sales made through the iTunes Store, including sales third-party software applications for the Company\x92 iOS devices, the Company not the primary obligor users the software, and third-party developers determine the selling price their software. Therefore, the Company accounts for such sales net basis recognizing only the commission retains from each sale and including that commission net sales the Consolidated Statements Operations. The portion the sales price paid users that remitted the Company third-party developers not reflected the Company\x92 Consolidated Statement Operations. The Company records deferred revenue when receives payments advance the delivery products the performance services. This includes amounts that have been deferred related embedded unspecified and specified software upgrades rights. The Company sells gift cards redeemable its retail and online stores, and also sells gift cards redeemable the iTunes Store for the purchase content and software. The Company records deferred revenue upon the sale the card, which relieved upon redemption the card the customer. Revenue from AppleCare service and support contracts deferred and recognized ratably over the service coverage periods. AppleCare service and support contracts typically include extended phone support, repair services, web-based support resources and diagnostic tools offered under the Company\x92 standard limited warranty. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs recognized the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Revenue recorded net taxes collected from customers that are remitted governmental authorities, with the collected taxes recorded current liabilities until remitted the relevant government authority. Revenue Recognition for Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables For multi-element arrangements that include tangible products that contain software that essential the tangible product\x92 functionality and undelivered software elements that relate the tangible product\x92 essential software, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based their relative selling prices. such circumstances, the Company uses hierarchy determine the selling price used for allocating revenue deliverables: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (\x93VSOE\x94), ( ) third-party evidence selling price (\x93TPE\x94), and (iii) best estimate the selling price (\x93ESP\x94). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and the price actually charged the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Company\x92 best estimates what the selling prices elements would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. described more detail below, for all past and current sales iPhone, iPad, Apple and for sales iPod touch beginning June , the Company has indicated may from time- -time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features free charge customers. The Company has identified two deliverables arrangements involving the sale these devices. The first deliverable the hardware and software essential the functionality the hardware device delivered the time sale. The second deliverable the embedded right included with the purchase iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Apple receive when-and- -available basis, future unspecified software upgrades and features relating the product\x92 essential software. The Company has allocated revenue between these two deliverables using the relative selling price method. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for the two deliverables, the allocation revenue has been based the Company\x92 ESPs. Amounts allocated the delivered hardware and the related essential software are recognized the time sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated the embedded unspecified software upgrade rights are deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the -month estimated life each these devices. All product cost sales, including estimated warranty costs, are recognized the time sale. Costs for engineering and sales and marketing are expensed incurred. The Company\x92 process for determining its ESP for deliverables without VSOE TPE considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable. The Company believes its customers, particularly consumers, would reluctant buy unspecified software upgrade rights related iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Apple . This view primarily based the fact that unspecified upgrade rights not obligate the Company provide upgrades particular time all, and not specify customers which upgrades features will delivered. Therefore, the Company has concluded that were sell upgrade rights standalone basis, including those rights associated with iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Apple , the selling price would relatively low. Key factors considered the Company developing the ESPs for these upgrade rights include prices charged the Company for similar offerings, the Company\x92 historical pricing practices, the nature the upgrade rights ( ., unspecified and when-and- -available), and the relative ESP the upgrade rights compared the total selling price the product. The Company may also consider, when appropriate, the impact other products and services, including advertising services, selling price assumptions when developing and reviewing its ESPs for software upgrade rights and related deliverables. The Company may also consider additional factors appropriate, including the pricing competitive alternatives they exist, and product-specific business objectives. Beginning the third quarter conjunction with the announcement iOS , the Company\x92 ESPs for the embedded software upgrade rights included with iPhone, iPad and iPod touch reflect the positive financial impact expected the Company result its introduction mobile advertising platform for these devices and the expectation customers regarding software that includes supports advertising component. iOS supports iAd, the Company\x92 new mobile advertising platform, which enables applications iPhone, iPad and iPod touch embed media-rich advertisements. For all periods presented, the Company\x92 ESP for the embedded software upgrade right included with each Apple sold $ . The Company\x92 ESP for the software upgrade right included with each iPhone sold through the Company\x92 second quarter was $ . Beginning April conjunction with the Company\x92 announcement iOS for iPhone, the Company lowered its ESP for the software upgrade right included with each iPhone $ . Beginning with initial sales iPad April , the Company has also indicated may from time- -time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features free charge iPad customers. The Company\x92 ESP for the embedded software upgrade right included with the sale each iPad $ . June , the Company announced that certain previously sold iPod touch models would receive upgrade iOS free charge and indicated iPod touch devices running iOS may from time- -time receive future unspecified software upgrades and features free charge. The Company\x92 ESP for the embedded software upgrade right included with each iPod touch sold beginning June $ . The Company accounts for multiple element arrangements that consist only software software-related products, including the sale upgrades previously sold software, accordance with industry specific accounting guidance for software and software-related transactions. For such transactions, revenue arrangements that include multiple elements allocated each element based the relative fair value each element, and fair value determined VSOE. the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value any undelivered element included such multiple-element arrangements, the Company defers revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, until fair value can objectively determined for any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value delivered element has not been established, but fair value exists for the undelivered elements, the Company uses the residual method recognize revenue. Under the residual method, the fair value the undelivered elements deferred and the remaining portion the arrangement fee allocated the delivered elements and recognized revenue. Except described for iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Apple , the Company generally does not offer unspecified upgrade rights its customers connection with software sales the sale AppleCare extended warranty and support contracts. limited number the Company\x92 software products are available with maintenance agreements that grant customers rights unspecified future upgrades over the maintenance term when and available basis. Revenue associated with such maintenance recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Shipping Costs For all periods presented, amounts billed customers related shipping and handling are classified revenue, and the Company\x92 shipping and handling costs are included cost sales. Warranty Expense The Company generally provides for the estimated cost hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. The Company assesses the adequacy its pre-existing warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. Software Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased, otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\x92 technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers. most instances, the Company\x92 products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally most software development costs have been expensed incurred. The Company did not capitalize any software development costs during . and , the Company capitalized $ million and $ million, respectively, costs associated with the development Mac Version Snow Leopard (\x93Mac Snow Leopard\x94), which was released during the fourth quarter . The capitalized costs are being amortized cost sales straight-line basis over three year estimated useful life the underlying technology. Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based payment transactions which the Company receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the enterprise ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\x92 equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. Stock-based compensation cost for restricted stock units (\x93RSUs\x94) measured based the closing fair market value the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. Stock-based compensation cost for stock options estimated the grant date based each option\x92 fair-value calculated the Black-Scholes-Merton (\x93BSM\x94) option-pricing model. The Company recognizes stock-based compensation cost expense ratably straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Company will recognize benefit from stock-based compensation equity incremental tax benefit realized following the ordering provisions the tax law. addition, the Company accounts for the indirect effects stock-based compensation the research tax credit, the foreign tax credit and the domestic manufacturing deduction through the income statement. Further information regarding stock-based compensation can found Note , \x93Shareholders\x92 Equity and Stock-Based Compensation\x94 this Form - . Income Taxes The provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company recognizes the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon settlement. See Note , \x93Income Taxes\x94 this Form - for additional information. Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the potentially dilutive securities had been issued. Potentially dilutive securities include outstanding stock options, shares purchased under the employee stock purchase plan and unvested RSUs. The dilutive effect potentially dilutive securities reflected diluted earnings per common share application the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company\x92 common stock can result greater dilutive effect from potentially dilutive securities. The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per common share for the three years ended September , ( thousands, except net income millions and per share amounts): Numerator: Net income $ , $ , $ , Denominator: Weighted-average shares outstanding , , , Effect dilutive securities , , , Weighted-average diluted shares , , , Basic earnings per common share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per common share $ $ $ Potentially dilutive securities representing million, million and million shares common stock for , and , respectively, were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been antidilutive. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. The Company\x92 debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt securities the time purchase and reevaluates the available-for-sale designations each balance sheet date. The Company classifies its marketable debt securities either short-term long-term based each instrument\x92 underlying contractual maturity date. Marketable securities with maturities less than months are classified short-term and marketable securities with maturities greater than months are classified long-term. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\x92 equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. Derivatives that are not defined hedges must adjusted fair value through earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the effective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument reported component accumulated other comprehensive income shareholders\x92 equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument recognized current earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For options designated cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The Company did not have net gain loss these derivative instruments during , and . The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward exchange contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current earnings. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment various factors. The Company considers historical experience, the age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality the Company\x92 customers, current economic conditions, and other factors that may affect customers\x92 ability pay. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost, computed using the first- , first-out method, market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. The Company\x92 inventories consist primarily components and finished goods for all periods presented. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which for buildings the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building, five years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms ten years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from three five years. Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ million, $ million and $ million during , and , respectively. Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amounts future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. The Company did not record any significant impairments during , and . The Company does not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, rather such assets are required tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the assets may impaired. The Company performs its goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests about August each year. The Company did not recognize any goodwill intangible asset impairment charges , and . The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment. The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from three ten years. Fair Value Measurements During , the Company adopted the FASB\x92 new accounting standard fair value measurements and disclosures for all financial assets and liabilities. The new accounting principles define fair value, provide framework for measuring fair value, and expand the disclosures required for fair value measurements. During the first quarter , the Company adopted the new fair value accounting principles for all non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except for items that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis, which did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. The Company applies fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis. The Company defines fair value the price that would received from selling asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, which are required recorded fair value, the Company considers the principal most advantageous market which the Company would transact and the market-based risk measurements assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability, such inherent risk, transfer restrictions and credit risk. accordance with the fair value accounting requirements, companies may choose measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items fair value. The Company has not elected the fair value option for any eligible financial instruments. Foreign Currency Translation and Remeasurement The Company translates the assets and liabilities its non- . dollar functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged foreign currency translation included accumulated other comprehensive income shareholders\x92 equity. The Company\x92 subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these remeasurements were insignificant and have been included the Company\x92 results operations. Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. Information about the Company\x92 products, major customers and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. Business Combinations December , the FASB issued new accounting standard for business combinations, which established principles and requirements for how acquirer recognize and measure its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest the acquiree business combination. This new accounting standard also established principles regarding how goodwill acquired business combination gain from bargain purchase should recognized and measured, requiring the capitalization -process research and development fair value and the expensing acquisition-related costs incurred, well providing guidelines the disclosure requirements. April , the FASB amended this new accounting standard require that assets acquired and liabilities assumed business combination that arise from contingencies recognized fair value, the fair value can determined during the measurement period. The Company adopted the new business combination accounting standard the first quarter and applied these principles any business combinations completed after the first quarter . The adoption the new business combination accounting standard did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. Note \x96 Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\x92 cash and available-for-sale securities held its marketable securities investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term long-term marketable securities September , and September , ( millions): September , September , Cash $ , $ , Money market funds , , . Treasury securities , . agency securities , Non- . government securities Certificates deposit and time deposits Commercial paper , , Corporate securities Municipal securities Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury securities , , . agency securities , , Non- . government securities Certificates deposit and time deposits , Commercial paper , , Corporate securities , , Municipal securities Total short-term marketable securities , , . Treasury securities , . agency securities , , Non- . government securities , Certificates deposit and time deposits , Corporate securities , , Municipal securities , Total long-term marketable securities , , Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , The following tables summarize the Company\x92 available-for-sale securities\x92 adjusted cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value significant investment category September , and September , ( millions): September , Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Money market funds $ , $ $ $ , . Treasury securities , , . agency securities , , Non- . government securities , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , ( ) , Commercial paper , , Corporate securities , ( ) , Municipal securities , ( ) , Total cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ $ ( ) $ , September , Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Money market funds $ , $ $ $ , . Treasury securities , , . agency securities , , Non- . government securities Certificates deposit and time deposits , , Commercial paper , , Corporate securities , ( ) , Municipal securities Total cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ $ ( ) $ , The Company had net unrealized gains its investment portfolio $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The net unrealized gains September , and September , related primarily long-term marketable securities. The Company may sell certain its marketable securities prior their stated maturities for strategic purposes, anticipation credit deterioration, for duration management. The Company recognized significant net realized gains losses during , and related such sales. The maturities the Company\x92 long-term marketable securities generally range from one year five years . The following tables show the gross unrealized losses and fair value for investments unrealized loss position September , and September , , aggregated investment category and the length time that individual securities have been continuous loss position ( millions): September , Less than Months Months Greater Total Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Loss Certificates deposit and time deposits $ $ ( ) $ $ $ $ ( ) Corporate securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) September , Less than Months Months Greater Total Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Loss Corporate securities $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) The Company considers the declines market value its marketable securities investment portfolio temporary nature. The unrealized losses the Company\x92 marketable securities were caused primarily changes market interest rates widening credit spreads. The Company typically invests highly-rated securities, and its policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\x92 investment policy requires investments investment grade, primarily rated single- better, with the objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. Fair values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. When evaluating the investments for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Company\x92 intent sell, whether more likely than not will required sell, the investment before recovery the investment\x92 amortized cost basis. During the years ended September , and September , , the Company did not recognize any significant impairment charges. September , , the Company does not consider any its investments other-than-temporarily impaired. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign currency exchange risk. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset some the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenue and cost sales, net investments certain foreign subsidiaries, and certain existing assets and liabilities. help protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, certain the Company\x92 subsidiaries whose functional currency the . dollar, hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenue. The Company\x92 subsidiaries whose functional currency not the . dollar and who sell local currencies, may hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\x92 functional currencies. The Company typically hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases for three six months. help protect the net investment foreign operation from adverse changes foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the changes the carrying amounts these investments due fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign currency exchange exposures for variety reasons, including but not limited immateriality, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. There can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements foreign currency exchange rates. The Company\x92 accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the Consolidated Balance Sheets fair value. The effective portions cash flow hedges are recorded other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. The effective portions net investment hedges are recorded other comprehensive income part the cumulative translation adjustment. Derivatives that are not designated hedging instruments and the ineffective portions cash flow hedges and net investment hedges are adjusted fair value through earnings other income and expense. The Company had net deferred loss associated with cash flow hedges approximately $ million and net deferred gain $ million, net taxes, recorded other comprehensive income September , and September , , respectively. Other comprehensive income associated with cash flow hedges foreign currency revenue recognized component net sales the same period the related revenue recognized, and other comprehensive income related cash flow hedges inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Substantially all the Company\x92 hedged transactions September , are expected occur within six months. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent two month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with such derivative instruments are reclassified immediately into earnings through other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments also are reflected current earnings unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. The Company did not recognize any significant net gains losses related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges during , and . The Company had unrealized net loss net investment hedges $ million and $ million, net taxes, included the cumulative translation adjustment account accumulated other comprehensive income (\x93AOCI\x94) September , and September , , respectively. The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness test net investment hedges are recorded current earnings other income and expense. The Company recognized earnings net loss $ million and $ million foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated hedging instruments during the year ended September , and September , , respectively. These amounts represent the net gain loss the derivative contracts and not include changes the related exposures, which generally offset portion the gain loss the derivative contracts. The following table shows the notional principal and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 derivative instruments outstanding September , and September , ( millions): Notional Principal Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Credit Risk Amounts Instruments qualifying accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , $ Instruments other than accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , $ The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding and does not represent the amount the Company\x92 exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amounts represent the Company\x92 gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange rates each respective date. The Company\x92 gross exposure these transactions may further mitigated collateral received from certain counterparties. The Company\x92 exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency exchange rates. Although the table above reflects the notional principal and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. The Company generally enters into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk permitting net settlement transactions with the same counterparty. further limit credit risk, the Company generally enters into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral received posted when the net fair value certain financial instruments fluctuate from contractually established thresholds. The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities their gross fair values. September , , the Company has posted cash collateral related the derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements $ million and recorded the offsetting balance other current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company did not record any significant amounts cash collateral related the derivative instruments under its master netting arrangements September , . The Company did not have any derivative instruments with credit risk-related contingent features that would require post additional collateral September , September , . The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models and prevailing financial market information September , . Refer Note , \x93Fair Value Measurements\x94 this Form - , for additional information the fair value measurements for all financial assets and liabilities, including derivative assets and derivative liabilities, that are measured fair value the consolidated financial statements recurring basis. The following tables show the Company\x92 derivative instruments measured gross fair value reflected the Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , ( millions): September , Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Derivative liabilities ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ September , Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Derivative liabilities ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ ( ) All derivative assets are recorded other current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. ( ) All derivative liabilities are recorded accrued expenses the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following tables show the pre-tax effect the Company\x92 derivative instruments designated cash flow and net investment hedges the Consolidated Statements Operations for the years ended September , and September , ( millions): Gains/(Losses) Recognized OCI - Effective Portion ( ) Gains/(Losses) Reclassified from AOCI into Income - Effective Portion ( ) Gains/(Losses) Recognized \x96 Ineffective Portion and Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Testing September , September , September , ( ) September , ( ) Location September , September , Cash flow hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ ( ) $ $ $ Other income and expense $ ( ) $ ( ) Net investment hedges: Foreign exchange contracts ( ) ( ) Other income and expense Total $ ( ) $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Includes gains/(losses) reclassified from AOCI into net income for the effective portion cash flow hedges, which $ million and ($ ) million were recognized within net sales and cost sales, respectively, within the Statement Operations for the year ended September , . There were amounts reclassified from AOCI into net income for the effective portion net investment hedges for the year ended September , . ( ) Includes gains/(losses) reclassified from AOCI into net income for the effective portion cash flow hedges, which $ million and $ million were recognized within net sales and cost sales, respectively, within the Statement Operations for the year ended September , . There were amounts reclassified from AOCI into net income for the effective portion net investment hedges for the year ended September , . ( ) Refer Note , \x93Shareholders\x92 Equity and Stock-Based Compensation\x94 this Form - , which summarizes the activity accumulated other comprehensive income related derivatives. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers and directly certain education, consumer and enterprise customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company attempts limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Australia, requiring third-party financing, loans leases support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables not covered collateral, third-party financing arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. Trade receivables from two the Company\x92 customers accounted for % and % trade receivables September , and one the Company\x92 customers accounted for % trade receivables September , . The Company\x92 cellular network carriers accounted for % and % trade receivables September , and September , , respectively. The additions and write-offs the Company\x92 allowance for doubtful accounts during , and were not significant. Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these components directly from suppliers. Vendor non-trade receivables from two the Company\x92 vendors accounted for % and %, respectively, non-trade receivables September , and two the Company\x92 vendors accounted for % and %, respectively, non-trade receivables September , . The Company does not reflect the sale these components net sales and does not recognize any profits these sales until the related products are sold the Company, which time any profit recognized reduction cost sales. Note \x96 Fair Value Measurements The Company defines fair value the price that would received from selling asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, which are required recorded fair value, the Company considers the principal most advantageous market which the Company would transact and the market-based risk measurements assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability, such inherent risk, transfer restrictions and credit risk. The Company applies the following fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level input that available and significant the fair value measurement: Level \x96 Quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. Level \x96 Observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Level \x96 Inputs that are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\x92 estimates assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. The Company\x92 valuation techniques used measure the fair value money market funds and certain marketable equity securities were derived from quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. The valuation techniques used measure the fair value all other financial instruments, all which have counterparties with high credit ratings, were valued based quoted market prices model driven valuations using significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. Assets Liabilities Measured Fair Value Recurring Basis The following table presents the Company\x92 assets and liabilities measured fair value recurring basis September , and September , ( millions): September , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Instruments (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level ) Total ( ) Assets: Money market funds $ , $ $ $ , . Treasury securities , , . agency securities , , Non- . government securities , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , , Commercial paper , , Corporate securities , , Municipal securities , , Marketable equity securities Foreign exchange contracts Total assets measured fair value $ , $ , $ $ , Liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ $ September , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Instruments (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level ) Total ( ) Assets: Money market funds $ , $ $ $ , . Treasury securities , , . agency securities , , Non- . government securities Certificates deposit and time deposits , , Commercial paper , , Corporate securities , , Municipal securities Marketable equity securities Foreign exchange contracts Total assets measured fair value $ , $ , $ $ , Liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ $ ( ) The total fair value amounts for assets and liabilities also represent the related carrying amounts. The following table summarizes the Company\x92 assets and liabilities measured fair value recurring basis presented the Company\x92 Consolidated Balance Sheet September , and September , ( millions): September , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Instruments (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level ) Total ( ) Assets: Cash equivalents $ , $ , $ $ , Short-term marketable securities , , Long-term marketable securities , , Other current assets Other assets Total assets measured fair value $ , $ , $ $ , Liabilities: Other current liabilities $ $ $ $ September , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Instruments (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level ) Total ( ) Assets: Cash equivalents $ , $ , $ $ , Short-term marketable securities , , Long-term marketable securities , , Other current assets Other assets Total assets measured fair value $ , $ , $ $ , Liabilities: Other current liabilities $ $ $ $ ( ) The total fair value amounts for assets and liabilities also represent the related carrying amounts. Note \x96 Consolidated Financial Statement Details The following tables show the Company\x92 consolidated financial statement details September , and September , ( millions): Property, Plant and Equipment Land and buildings $ , $ Machinery, equipment and internal-use software , , Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Gross property, plant and equipment , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Net property, plant and equipment $ , $ , Accrued Expenses Accrued warranty and related costs $ $ Deferred margin component sales Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued marketing and distribution Income taxes payable Other current liabilities , , Total accrued expenses $ , $ , Non-Current Liabilities Deferred tax liabilities $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities , , Total other non-current liabilities $ , $ , Note \x96 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from three ten years. The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances September , and September , ( millions): Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Definite lived and amortizable acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Indefinite lived and unamortizable trademarks Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ During , the Company completed various business acquisitions for aggregate cash consideration, net cash acquired, $ million, which $ million was allocated goodwill and $ million acquired intangible assets. The Company\x92 gross carrying amount goodwill was $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The Company did not have any goodwill impairment during , . The Company\x92 goodwill allocated primarily the America\x92 reportable operating segment. Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. September , and September , , the weighted-average amortization period for acquired intangible assets was years and years, respectively. Expected annual amortization expense related acquired intangible assets September , , follows ( millions): Years $ Thereafter Total $ Note \x96 Income Taxes The provision for income taxes for the three years ended September , , consisted the following ( millions): Federal: Current $ , $ , $ , Deferred , , , , , State: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. The Company\x92 consolidated financial statements provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\x92 foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . September , , . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ billion such earnings. The amount unrecognized deferred tax liability related these temporary differences estimated approximately $ billion. September , and September , , $ billion and $ billion, respectively, the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , and September , , the significant components the Company\x92 deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Deferred tax assets: Accrued liabilities and other reserves $ , $ , Basis capital assets and investments Accounts receivable and inventory reserves Stock-based compensation Other Total deferred tax assets , , Less valuation allowance Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance , , Deferred tax liabilities - Unremitted earnings foreign subsidiaries , , Net deferred tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( ) reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , and ) income before provision for income taxes for the three years ended September , , follows ( millions): Computed expected tax $ , $ , $ , State taxes, net federal effect Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( , ) ( ) ( ) Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Company\x92 income taxes payable have been reduced the tax benefits from employee stock plan awards. For stock options, the Company receives income tax benefit calculated the difference between the fair market value the stock issued the time the exercise and the option price, tax effected. For RSUs, the Company receives income tax benefit upon the award\x92 vesting equal the tax effect the underlying stock\x92 fair market value. The Company had net excess tax benefits from employee stock plan awards $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively, which were reflected increases common stock. Uncertain Tax Positions Tax positions are evaluated two-step process. The Company first determines whether more likely than not that tax position will sustained upon examination. tax position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold then measured determine the amount benefit recognize the financial statements. The tax position measured the largest amount benefit that greater than % likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company classifies gross interest and penalties and unrecognized tax benefits that are not expected result payment receipt cash within one year non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ million, which $ million, recognized, would affect the Company\x92 effective tax rate. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ million, which $ million, recognized, would affect the Company\x92 effective tax rate. The aggregate changes the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, for the three years ended September , , follows ( millions): Beginning Balance $ $ Increases related tax positions taken during prior year Decreases related tax positions taken during prior year ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases related tax positions taken during the current year Decreases related settlements with taxing authorities ( ) Decreases related expiration statute limitations ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending Balance $ $ $ The Company includes interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes. September , and September , , the total amount gross interest and penalties accrued was $ million and $ million, respectively, which classified non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. and , the Company recognized interest benefit $ million and interest expense $ million, respectively, connection with tax matters. The Company subject taxation and files income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. For . federal income tax purposes, all years prior are closed. The Internal Revenue Service (the \x93IRS\x94) has completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS currently examining the years through . During the third quarter , the Company reached tax settlement with the IRS for the years through . connection with the settlement, the Company reduced its gross unrecognized tax benefits $ million and recognized $ million tax benefit the third quarter . addition, the Company also subject audits state, local and foreign tax authorities. major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent and , respectively, generally remain open and could subject examination the taxing authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Although timing the resolution and closure audits not certain, the Company does not believe reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits would materially change the next months. Note \x96 Shareholders\x92 Equity and Stock-Based Compensation Preferred Stock The Company has five million shares authorized preferred stock, none which issued outstanding. Under the terms the Company\x92 Restated Articles Incorporation, the Board Directors authorized determine alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions the Company\x92 authorized but unissued shares preferred stock. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under GAAP are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. The following table summarizes the components AOCI, net taxes, the three years ended September , ( millions): Net unrealized gains losses marketable securities $ $ $ ( ) Net unrecognized gains losses derivative instruments ( ) Cumulative foreign currency translation Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) The change fair value available-for-sale securities included other comprehensive income was $ million, $ million and $( ) million, net taxes , and , respectively. The tax effect related the change unrealized gains losses available-for-sale securities was $( ) million, $( ) million and $ million for , and , respectively. The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company during the three years ended September , ( millions): Changes fair value derivatives $ ( ) $ $ Adjustment for net gains losses realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Change unrecognized gains losses derivative instruments $ ( ) $ ( ) $ The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $ million, $( ) million and $( ) million for , and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains losses reclassified from other comprehensive income net income was $ million, $ million and $( ) million for , and , respectively. Employee Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan The Employee Stock Plan (the \x93 Plan\x94) shareholder approved plan that provides for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, RSUs, stock appreciation rights, stock purchase rights and performance-based awards. Options granted under the Plan generally expire seven ten years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period four years, based continued employment, with either annual, semi-annual quarterly vesting. general, RSUs granted under the Plan vest over two four years, are subject the employees\x92 continued employment and are paid upon vesting shares the Company\x92 common stock one-for-one basis. the Company\x92 annual meeting shareholders, the Plan was amended ( ) increase the number shares the Company\x92 common stock that may delivered pursuant awards granted under the Plan additional , , shares and ( ) extend the Company\x92 authority grant awards under the Plan intended qualify \x93performance-based awards\x94 within the meaning Section ( ) the . Internal Revenue Code through the annual meeting shareholders. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Plan. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\x92 Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the \x93 Plan\x94), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options granted under the Plan generally expire seven ten years after the grant date. All stock options granted under the Plan are fully vested. October , the Company terminated the Plan, and new options can granted from this plan. Director Stock Plan August , the Company\x92 Board Directors (the \x93Board\x94) adopted Director Stock Option Plan, which was subsequently renamed the Director Stock Plan (the \x93Director Plan\x94) and has been approved shareholders. amended, the Director Plan ( ) permits the Company grant awards RSUs stock options the Company\x92 non-employee directors, ( ) beginning February , , provides for automatic initial grants RSUs upon non-employee director joining the Board and automatic annual grants RSUs each annual meeting shareholders, and (iii) permits the Board prospectively change the relative mixture stock options and RSUs for the initial and annual award grants and the methodology for determining the number shares the Company\x92 common stock subject these grants without shareholder approval. Each share issued with respect RSUs granted under the plan reduces the number shares available for grant under the plan two shares. The Director Plan expires November , . September , , approximately , shares were reserved for future issuance under the Director Plan. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans During the fourth quarter , executive officers Timothy . Cook, Peter Oppenheimer, . Bruce Sewell, Philip . Schiller and Bertrand Serlet had trading plans pursuant Rule 10b5- ( )( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the \x93Exchange Act\x94). trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company\x92 stock including the exercise and sale employee stock options and shares acquired pursuant the Company\x92 employee stock purchase plan and upon vesting RSUs. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the \x93Purchase Plan\x94), under which substantially all employees may purchase the Company\x92 common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the stock the beginning and end six-month offering periods. employee\x92 payroll deductions under the Purchase Plan are limited % the employee\x92 compensation and employee\x92 may not purchase more than $ , stock for any calendar year. Additionally, more than , , shares may purchased the aggregate any one offering period. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the \x93Savings Plan\x94) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the IRS annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\x92 contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\x92 eligible earnings. The Company\x92 matching contributions the Savings Plan were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Restricted Stock Units summary the Company\x92 RSU activity and related information for the three years ended September , , follows ( thousands, except per share amounts): Number Shares Weighted- Average Grant Date Fair Value Aggregate Intrinsic Value Balance September , , $ Restricted stock units granted , $ Restricted stock units vested ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled ( ) $ Balance September , , $ Restricted stock units granted , $ Restricted stock units vested ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled ( ) $ Balance September , , $ Restricted stock units granted , $ Restricted stock units vested ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled ( ) $ Balance September , , $ $ , , The fair value the vesting date RSUs was $ billion, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Upon vesting, the RSUs are generally net share-settled cover the required withholding tax and the remaining amount converted into equivalent number shares common stock. The majority RSUs that vested , and , were net-share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the employees\x92 minimum statutory obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld were approximately million, , and , for , and , respectively, and were based the value the RSUs their vesting date determined the Company\x92 closing stock price. Total payments for the employees\x92 tax obligations the taxing authorities were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively, and are reflected financing activity within the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows. These net-share settlements had the effect share repurchases the Company they reduced and retired the number shares that would have otherwise been issued result the vesting and did not represent expense the Company. Stock Option Activity summary the Company\x92 stock option and RSU activity and related information for the three years ended September , , follows ( thousands, except per share amounts and contractual term years): Outstanding Options Shares Available for Grant Number Shares Weighted- Average Exercise Price Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value Balance September , , , $ Restricted stock units granted ( , ) $ Options granted ( , ) , $ Options cancelled , ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled $ Options exercised ( , ) $ Plan shares expired ( ) $ Balance September , , , $ Restricted stock units granted ( , ) $ Options granted ( ) $ Options cancelled , ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled , $ Options exercised ( , ) $ Plan shares expired ( ) $ Balance September , , , $ Additional shares authorized , $ Restricted stock units granted ( , ) $ Options granted ( ) $ Options assumed $ Options cancelled ( ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled , $ Options exercised ( , ) $ Plan shares expired ( ) $ Balance September , , , $ $ , , Exercisable September , , $ $ , , Expected vest after September , , $ $ , Aggregate intrinsic value represents the value the Company\x92 closing stock price the last trading day the fiscal period excess the weighted-average exercise price multiplied the number options outstanding exercisable. The aggregate intrinsic value excludes the effect stock options that have zero negative intrinsic value. Total intrinsic value options time exercise was $ billion, $ million and $ billion for , and , respectively. RSUs granted are deducted from the shares available for grant under the Company\x92 stock option plans utilizing factor two times the number RSUs granted. Similarly, RSUs cancelled are added back the shares available for grant under the Company\x92 stock option plans utilizing factor two times the number RSUs cancelled. Outstanding RSU balances are not included the outstanding options balances the stock option activity table. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation cost for RSUs measured based the closing fair market value the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. Stock-based compensation cost for stock options and employee stock purchase plan rights (\x93stock purchase rights\x94) estimated the grant date and offering date, respectively, based the fair-value calculated the BSM option-pricing model. The BSM option-pricing model incorporates various assumptions including expected volatility, expected life and interest rates. The expected volatility based the historical volatility the Company\x92 common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life the Company\x92 stock options and other relevant factors including implied volatility market traded options the Company\x92 common stock. The Company bases its expected life assumption its historical experience and the terms and conditions the stock awards grants employees. The Company recognizes stock-based compensation cost expense ratably straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The weighted-average assumptions used for stock options granted not apply employee stock options assumed conjunction with business acquisitions during the year ended September , . The weighted-average fair value stock options assumed during the year ended September , was $ . There were stock options assumed during and . The weighted-average assumptions used for the three years ended September , , and the resulting estimates weighted-average fair value per share options granted and stock purchase rights during those periods are follows: Expected life stock options years years years Expected life stock purchase rights months months months Interest rate - stock options % % % Interest rate - stock purchase rights % % % Volatility - stock options % % % Volatility - stock purchase rights % % % Dividend yields Weighted-average fair value stock options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value stock purchase plan rights during the year $ $ $ The following table provides summary the stock-based compensation expense included the Consolidated Statements Operations for the three years ended September , ( millions): Cost sales $ $ $ Research and development Selling, general and administrative Total stock-based compensation expense $ $ $ Stock-based compensation expense capitalized software development costs was not significant September , September , . The income tax benefit related stock-based compensation expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related stock options and RSUs expected vest was $ billion September , , which expected recognized over weighted-average period years. Note \x96 Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding years and generally provide renewal options for terms not exceeding five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five years, the majority which are for ten years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\x92 total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion, which $ billion related leases for retail space. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): Years $ Thereafter Total minimum lease payments $ , Accrued Warranty and Indemnifications The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its pre-existing warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. The Company periodically provides updates its applications and system software maintain the software\x92 compliance with published specifications. The estimated cost develop such updates accounted for warranty costs that are recognized the time related software revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals related such updates include the number units delivered, the number updates expected occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost the resources necessary develop these updates. The following table reconciles changes the Company\x92 accrued warranty and related costs for the three years ended September , ( millions): Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ Cost warranty claims ( ) ( ) ( ) Accruals for product warranty Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would materially adversely affect its financial condition operating results. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage reduce its exposure such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not materially adversely affected the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including but not limited microprocessors, enclosures, certain liquid crystal displays (\x93LCDs\x94), certain optical drives and application-specific integrated circuits (\x93ASICs\x94) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources, which subjects the Company significant supply and pricing risks. Many these and other key components that are available from multiple sources including but not limited NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (\x93DRAM\x94) and certain LCDs, are subject times industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. addition, the Company has entered into certain agreements for the supply key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs favorable pricing, but there guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar favorable terms, all, upon expiration otherwise obtain favorable pricing the future. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company and other participants the personal computer, and mobile communication and media device industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. addition, the Company uses some custom components that are not common the rest these industries, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company\x92 supply key single-sourced component for new existing product were delayed constrained, such components were available only significantly higher prices, key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers decided concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. Substantially all the Company\x92 Macs, iPhones, iPads, iPods, logic boards and other assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, primarily various parts Asia. significant concentration this outsourced manufacturing currently performed only few outsourcing partners the Company, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced supplier components and manufacturing outsourcing for many the Company\x92 key products including but not limited final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 Macs, iPhones, iPads and iPods. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods ranging from days. Long-Term Supply Agreements The Company has entered into prepaid long-term supply agreements secure the supply certain inventory components, which generally expire between and . September , , the Company had total $ million inventory component prepayments outstanding, which $ million classified other current assets and $ million classified other assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. August , the Company entered into long-term supply agreement under which has committed prepay $ million . The Company had total $ billion inventory component prepayments outstanding September , . These prepayments will applied certain inventory component purchases made over the life each respective agreement. Contingencies The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated, which are discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Legal Proceedings.\x94 the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition operating results. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. the Company failed prevail any these legal matters several these legal matters were resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. March , , Mirror Worlds, LLC filed action against the Company alleging that certain its products infringed three patents covering technology used display files. October , , jury returned verdict against the Company, and awarded damages $ million per patent for each the three patents asserted. The Company challenging the verdict, believes has valid defenses and has not recorded loss contingency this time. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental, product safety and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various countries within Europe and Asia and certain states and provinces within North America. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. Accordingly, the Company determined its operating and reporting segments, which are generally based the nature and location its customers, the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail operations. The Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segment results not include results the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia, but does not include Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores countries, including the . Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. The accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies.\x94 The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location customers, while Retail segment net sales are based sales from the Company\x92 retail stores. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Advertising expenses are generally included the geographic segment which the expenditures are incurred. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, such manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, research and development, corporate marketing expenses, stock-based compensation expense, income taxes, various nonrecurring charges, and other separately managed general and administrative costs. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets, such cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing and corporate facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets. Except for the Retail segment, capital asset purchases for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Cash payments for capital asset purchases the Retail segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The Company has certain retail stores that have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness and serve vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company\x92 more typical retail stores. The Company allocates certain operating expenses associated with its high-profile stores corporate marketing expense reflect the estimated Company-wide benefit. The allocation these operating costs corporate expense based the amount incurred for high-profile store excess that incurred more typical Company retail location. The Company had opened total high-profile stores September , . Amounts allocated corporate expense resulting from the operations high-profile stores were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Summary information operating segment for the three years ended September , follows ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ , $ , $ , Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ , $ , $ , Japan: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Asia-Pacific: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ , $ $ Retail: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization and accretion ( ) $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the . Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate and Retail assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. reconciliation the Company\x92 segment operating income and assets the consolidated financial statements for the three years ended September , follows ( millions): Segment operating income $ , $ , $ , Other corporate expenses, net ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , Segment assets $ , $ , $ , Corporate assets , , , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Corporate depreciation, amortization and accretion Consolidated depreciation, amortization and accretion $ , $ $ ( ) Other corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses, including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. single country outside the . accounted for more than % net sales , . One the Company\x92 customers accounted for % net sales ; there was single customer that accounted for more than % net sales . Net sales and long-lived assets related the . and international operations for the three years ended September , , are follows ( millions): Net sales: . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Long-lived assets: . $ , $ , $ , International Total long-lived assets $ , $ , $ , Information regarding net sales product for the three years ended September , , follows ( millions): Desktops ( ) $ , $ , $ , Portables ( ) , , , Total Mac net sales , , , iPod , , , Other music related products and services ( ) , , , iPhone and related products and services ( ) , , , iPad and related products and services ( ) , Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , , , Software, service and other net sales ( ) , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes iMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes MacBook, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro product lines. ( ) Includes iTunes Store sales, iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Includes revenue recognized from iPhone sales, carrier agreements, services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. ( ) Includes revenue recognized from iPad sales, services and Apple-branded and third-party iPad accessories. ( ) Includes sales displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system and application software, third-party software, Mac and Internet services. Note \x96 Related Party Transactions and Certain Other Transactions The Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its CEO, Steve Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Company recognized total approximately $ , , $ , and $ , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during , and , respectively. All expenses recognized pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement have been included selling, general and administrative expenses the Consolidated Statements Operations. Note \x96 Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) The following tables set forth summary the Company\x92 quarterly financial information for each the four quarters ended September , and September , ( millions, except per share amounts): Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended, conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Apple Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited Apple Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (\x93the COSO criteria\x94). Apple Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements Apple Inc. and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Report KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity, and cash flows for the year ended September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with generally accepted auditing standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit also includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the results operations and cash flows Apple Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended September , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. discussed note , the consolidated financial statements for the year ended September , have been restated give effect the retrospective adoption the Financial Accounting Standards Board\x92 amended accounting standards related revenue recognition for arrangements with multiple deliverables and arrangements that include software elements. / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California November , , except note , which January , ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\x92 management, the Company\x92 principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\x92 disclosure controls and procedures defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Exchange Act were effective September , provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company\x92 management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations Over Internal Controls The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with GAAP. The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company\x92 assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP, and that the Company\x92 receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company\x92 management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company\x92 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company\x92 internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company\x92 management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (\x93COSO\x94). Based the Company\x92 assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective September , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. The Company\x92 independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. The report the audit internal control over financial reporting appears page this Form - . Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter fiscal , which were identified connection with management\x92 evaluation required paragraph ( ) rules 13a- and 15d- under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this Item set forth under the heading \x93Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94) connection with the solicitation proxies for the Company\x92 Annual Meeting Shareholders (\x93 Proxy Statement\x94) and incorporated herein reference. Such Proxy Statement will filed with the SEC within days after the end the fiscal year which this report relates. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this Item set forth under the headings \x93Executive Compensation\x94 and \x93Compensation Discussion and Analysis\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this Item set forth under the headings \x93Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management\x94 and \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this Item set forth under the heading \x93Review, Approval Ratification Transactions with Related Persons\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accounting Fees and Services The information required this Item set forth under the heading \x93Fees Paid Auditors\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) Documents filed part this report ( ) All financial statements Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page ( ) Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. ( ) Exhibits required Item Regulation - The information required this Item set forth the exhibit index that follows the signature page this report. ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}