{'item 1. ': 'Business GENERAL Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" "Microsoft") was founded partnership and incorporated . Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, sells, and supports wide range software products, including operating systems for personal computers (PCs) and servers; server applications for client server environments, business and consumer productivity applications; interactive media programs; and Internet platform and development tools. Microsoft also offers online services, sells personal computer books and input devices, and researches and develops advanced technology software products. Microsoft( ) products are available for most PCs, including Intel microprocessor-based computers and Apple computers. Microsoft\' business strategy emphasizes the development broad line software products for business and personal use, marketed through multiple channels distribution. The Company divided into four main groups: the Platforms Product Group; the Applications and Content Product Group; the Sales and Support Group; and the Operations Group. The Platforms Product Group comprised three divisions, each responsible for particular area platforms software development and marketing. The Desktop and Business Systems Division develops and server operating systems and suite server applications. The Internet Platform and Tools Division creates software development tools, Internet browser technology, and other Internet and online products and technologies. The Consumer Platforms Division develops system software for non- devices, integrated software systems for public networks, and software for the creation content for digital media productions. The Applications and Content Product Group creates and markets productivity programs, desktop finance products, input devices, and interactive entertainment and information products. The group also includes advanced technology research division. The Desktop Applications Division creates business productivity applications and products designed for the home, school, and the small business market. The Interactive Media Division develops kids titles, games, information products, and The Microsoft Network (MSN( )). The Input Device Division creates peripherals. The Desktop Finance Division develops personal finance products. Microsoft Research research lab dedicated creating new technology support the Company\' vision for the evolution personal computing. The Sales and Support Group responsible for building long-term business relationships with customers. This group organized serve three customer types: original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), end-users, and organizations. The group also focuses directly large enterprises, offering tailored license programs, enterprisewide support, consulting services, and other specialized services. The group manages the channels that serve customers working with OEMs, distributors, and resellers. addition the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales organizations: . and Canada, Europe, and Other International. The group supports the Company\' products with technical support for end-users, developers, and organizations. The Operations Group responsible for managing business operations and overall business planning. This includes the process manufacturing and delivering finished goods and licenses; the publishing efforts Microsoft Press; and corporate functions such finance, administration, human resources, and legal. PRODUCTS DESKTOP AND BUSINESS SYSTEMS The Desktop and Business Systems Division has overall responsibility for the Microsoft Windows( ) and Microsoft BackOffice( ) product families. Operating system software performs variety functions, such allocating computer memory, scheduling applications software execution, managing information and communication flow among the various components, and enabling end-users access files and information. The division\' products are: (Please note: Windows and Windows for Workgroups are hereafter referred collectively "Windows .") WINDOWS : Microsoft\' newest personal operating system, the successor -DOS and Windows , was released commercially August ; periodic service releases have been made available hardware OEMs and end-users via the Internet www microsoft com. Windows fully integrated, multitasking -bit operating system, designed compatible with most Intel microprocessor-based PCs, hardware devices, and Windows and -DOS applications. WINDOWS WORKSTATION (NTW): Also fully integrated, multitasking -bit operating system, Windows NTW provides greater security, robustness and portability. Given this optimization, Windows NTW not fully compatible with many legacy applications and device drivers Windows . Windows NTW multithreaded operating system for mission critical computing which provides the same features and applications programming interfaces (APIs) across four hardware platforms: Intel, Alpha AXP, MIPS, and Power . -DOS: -DOS single-user, single-tasking operating system designed for Intel microprocessor-based PCs. -DOS was introduced and was preinstalled OEMs most PCs shipped prior the release Windows . WINDOWS : Microsoft Windows provides graphical user interface and other enhancements for -DOS-based PCs. Windows supports high-performance Windows-based applications, and offers ease use, aesthetic appeal, and straightforward integration into corporate computing environments. WINDOWS FOR WORKGROUPS : Windows for Workgroups integrates network and workgroup functionality directly into the Windows operating system. With Windows for Workgroups, users can share files, data, and printers, with ease access and security. WINDOWS SERVER (NTS): Windows NTS powerful operating system foundation for both server applications and file and print serving, providing extensive network management features, administration tools, security, and fault tolerance, and platform for business critical applications and databases, connectivity, system management, and mail servers. Windows NTS integrates Web services such Microsoft Internet Information Server (IIS), server used manage intranet and Internet functionality, Microsoft FrontPage( ) Web authoring and management tool, and Microsoft Index Server, content indexing and querying search engine. MICROSOFT BACKOFFICE: The Microsoft BackOffice family server applications integrated series software products that work together running single server, multiple servers across network intranet, the Internet. BackOffice enables desktop users access and integrate information from variety sources inside and outside organization. Microsoft Exchange Server provides -mail, group scheduling, and integrated groupware capabilities; Microsoft SQL Server( ) manages and stores data; Microsoft SNA Server provides connectivity host data and applications; and Microsoft Systems Management Server centrally manages this distributed environment. INTERNET PLATFORM AND TOOLS PRODUCTS The Internet Platform and Tools Division provides Internet browser technology, software development tools, Internet and online server products, and technical information Windows and Internet applications developers. These products and services empower independent software developers, corporate developers, solutions developers, and Webmasters create broad spectrum applications, primarily for Windows and Windows , but also for the platform-independent Internet and intranets. INTERNET SOFTWARE: The division has overall development and marketing responsibility for Microsoft Internet Explorer, the Company\' Internet browser. also provides products for developing, running, and managing Internet and intranet applications and content, including ActiveX( ) controls. Formerly known object linking and embedding (OLE) controls, ActiveX controls are components ( objects) that can inserted into Web page other application which allow packaged functionality programmed elsewhere reused and enables realtime, interactive content. DESKTOP DATABASE PRODUCTS: Database products control the maintenance and utilization structured data organized into set records files. The Company offers database products which span the needs wide variety users, from individuals large corporations. Microsoft Access relational database management application which provides access structured business data. Microsoft FoxPro desktop database development tool which compatible with the industry standard xBase development language. SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT TOOLS AND COMPUTER LANGUAGES: Software development tools and computer languages allow software developers write programs particular computer language and translate programs into binary machine-readable set commands that activate and instruct hardware. The Company develops and markets number software development environments, language compilers, and software testing tools. Microsoft Visual ++( ) the Company\' development system for Windows application development. The Microsoft Visual Basic( ) programming system provides easy access wide variety data sources integrating the Microsoft Access database engine and the ability leverage investments commercial applications through ActiveX controls. Microsoft( ) Visual ++, development environment for Java applications and Internet applets, contains high productivity Integrated Development Environment and collection integrated components create, test, tune and deploy Java code multiple platforms using ActiveX controls. DEVELOPER INFORMATION: The Company provides third party software developers with wide range technical and support information that assists them developing software products intended run Windows operating systems, taking advantage key technologies such ActiveX controls and Windows -bit APIs. Developers can subscribe the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN) information service and receive periodic updates via -ROMs, magazines, and several -line information services. ELECTRONIC COMMERCE AND INTERNET SERVICES: Microsoft currently developing software enable retailing the Internet. Microsoft Merchant Server, which will run Windows NTS, will allow merchants provide online shopping customers and handle credit card transaction payments. Microsoft also developing new platform for commercial Internet services designed for Internet service providers and commercial Web publishers built Windows NTS and integrated with IIS. The technologies under development include the major components needed run commercial, fee-based service, including value-added mail, forum areas, chat, news, indexing, and other content management services. CONSUMER PLATFORMS The Consumer Platforms Division developing software for three distinct platforms: non- devices, the Broadcast , and Network Multimedia. NON- DEVICES: The division responsible for Windows development, Microsoft\' open and scaleable Windows platform for broad range communications, entertainment, and mobile computing devices. The Windows platform new operating system enabling new categories business and consumer non- devices communicate with each other, share information with Windows PCs, and connect the Internet. Windows devices are based the Win32 API and build and extend the Company\' technology and tools base. The first non- product which will available the Handheld , designed companion Windows-based . BROADCAST : The Broadcast will extend the Windows family enabling PCs clients existing and emerging broadcast networks, supporting new content opportunities for Windows-based PCs through the use data broadcasting technology. Examples these networks include: satellite television networks, Internet\' Multicast backbone, cable television networks that support cable modems, wireless cable networks, and conventional networks that broadcast data the vertical blanking interval (VBI) the . NETWORK MULTIMEDIA: The division also developing multicasting tools which will enable network administrators efficiently deploy rich multimedia content and applications, streaming technology enabling the client view audio and illustrated audio without downloading anything the , and -based server software designed reliably deliver high-bandwidth video over dedicated networks large number clients. The Consumer Platforms Division also responsible for Softimage, which develops, markets, and supports family interactive software products enabling digital media producers create and edit two- and three-dimensional content for digital media productions. Softimage supplies visualization software for broadcast, film production, and other high-end animation applications. addition, Softimage has product line visualization software for use high-end applications, including post production editing and the integration visual images, text, sound, and special effects technology. These products are designed for the Windows and IRIX operating systems. SOFTIMAGE AND EXTREME: Softimage provides three-dimensional animation software for film and video professionals, animators, and artists who create and produce high-end three-dimensional imagery for traditional and new media. Extreme includes both the features and advanced special effects for modeling and rendering. DIGITAL STUDIO: Digital Studio fully integrated software-based environment blending and graphics, digital video, and digital audio. Digital Studio accommodates all types projects for digital multimedia such high end advertising, entertainment, games, and integrated interactive multimedia, offering all the tools needed create every kind digital media production consistent, digital authoring environment. DESKTOP APPLICATIONS SOFTWARE The Desktop Applications Division develops applications software, which provides the with instructions for the performance productivity tasks such manipulating text, numbers, graphics. The Company\' desktop applications software designed for use broad class end-users, regardless business, industry, market segment. Primary examples desktop applications software are word processing, spreadsheet, and presentation graphics programs. The Company\' desktop applications programs are developed principally for Windows and Macintosh operating systems. MICROSOFT OFFICE: Microsoft Office( ) suite software programs featuring seamless integration the most commonly used desktop applications. Microsoft Office based upon document-centric concept, with common commands and extensive use object linking and embedding (OLE) cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office available several versions, with certain combinations products available for the various operating system platforms. Products offered the various versions include Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, the Microsoft PowerPoint( ) presentation graphics program, Schedule+, the Microsoft Access( ) database, Bookshelf, and others. MICROSOFT WORD: The Company\' principal word processing program Microsoft Word. Versions Microsoft Word provide all the features that users word processing products expect graphical environment, plus the ability handle graphics, tables, spreadsheet data, charts, and images imported from other software programs. MICROSOFT EXCEL: The Company\' spreadsheet program Microsoft Excel. integrated spreadsheet with pivot table, database, and business graphics capabilities. Microsoft Excel allows full linking and embedding objects that permits users view and edit graphics charts from other programs the worksheet which the object stored. Microsoft Excel graphics capabilities can linked its spreadsheets allow simultaneous changes charts changes are made the spreadsheets. MICROSOFT POWERPOINT: Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program for producing transparencies, slides, overheads, and prints. MICROSOFT PROJECT: Microsoft Project critical path project scheduling and resource allocation program. The product can perform budgeting, monitoring, and cost estimating tool for large business projects and critical path and schedule planning tool. OTHER PRODUCTIVITY PRODUCTS: The Company also offers other productivity products, including Microsoft Works, Microsoft Publisher, and Microsoft FrontPage. Microsoft Works integrated software program that contains basic word processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that allows the easy exchange information from one tool another. Microsoft Publisher easy- -use, entry-level desktop publishing program. Microsoft FrontPage Web authoring and management tool for Web sites the Internet intranets. INTERACTIVE MEDIA PRODUCTS The Microsoft Interactive Media Division develops and markets interactive entertainment and information products across variety media, including the Internet, The Microsoft Network, and -ROM. INFORMATION: Reference titles include Microsoft Encarta( ) and Microsoft Bookshelf( ). The Encarta multimedia encyclopedia database blends text articles with wealth innovative, interactive information presented through animations, videos, maps, charts, sounds, and pictures. Bookshelf multimedia reference library that integrates seven well-respected and authoritative works, including dictionary, world atlas, world almanac, thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and two books quotations. Personal interest titles include Microsoft Cinemania( ), interactive guide the movies with entries for , films, Microsoft Dinosaurs, and many musical titles. Geography and travel products include Automap Road Atlas, comprehensive route-planning program with detailed maps and road information for routes North America. KIDS: Titles for children include Microsoft Creative Writer and Microsoft Fine Artist. Creative Writer full-featured creative writing and publishing program; Fine Artist comprehensive art program. Both products take advantage the computer\' ability integrate text, high-quality graphics, sound, and animation produce enriching creative experience for children. The Company also has series products based the popular children\' books and television series, The Magic School Bus. ENTERTAINMENT: The Company also has line entertainment products. Microsoft Flight Simulator popular aircraft flight simulation product available for -DOS and Macintosh operating systems. Games include Space Simulator, Microsoft Golf, Microsoft Fury( ), and Microsoft Arcade. Most games are available for the Windows environment. THE MICROSOFT NETWORK: The Microsoft Network interactive online service. MSN provides easy and inexpensive access for users wide range graphically-rich online content, compelling business model and platform for independent content providers (ICPs), and rich and powerful development tools. The online service provides access the Internet, electronic mail, bulletin boards, and myriad additional services offered Microsoft and ICPs. Content and service providers aligned with MSN have flexibility creating products and pricing their services, such subscriptions, online transactions, and ticket events. Services may supported advertising and commerce. MSN owned The Microsoft Network . Microsoft owns % the entity while wholly owned subsidiary Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) owns the remaining %. JOINT VENTURES: The Company has entered into joint venture arrangements leverage creative talent and content from other organizations. Microsoft owns % DreamWorks Interactive ., software company that develops interactive and multimedia products. DreamWorks SKG owns the remaining %. Microsoft owns % MSNBC Cable ., -hour cable news and information channel; and % MSNBC Interactive News ., interactive online news service. National Broadcasting Company (NBC) owns the remaining % these two joint ventures. INPUT DEVICES The Company\' major input device the Microsoft Mouse, hand-held pointing device that facilitates use . can used with -DOS and Windows operating systems and works with most applications products from Microsoft and other companies. Microsoft also offers mouse designed for the home and mouse for young children. The Company also markets the Microsoft Natural Keyboard( ), ergonomically-designed keyboard. Additionally, Microsoft sells two versions Sidewinder( ), joystick for games. DESKTOP FINANCE Microsoft Money financial organization product that allows users computerize their household finances. Microsoft Money available for systems running Windows . visually appealing, easy use, and focuses the financial tasks that people most often. Microsoft Money provides enhanced online home-banking services with different banks the . Users who are customers participating banks are able pay bills online, access - -date statements and balances, transfer funds, and send email messages and inquiries their banks. MICROSOFT PRESS Microsoft Press publishes books about software products from Microsoft and other software developers and about current developments the industry. Books published Microsoft Press typically are written and copyrighted independent authors who submit their manuscripts the Company for publication and who receive royalties based net revenues generated the book. Microsoft Press contracts with independent commercial printer for the manufacturing its books. Publisher\' Resources, Inc. acts the Company\' main fulfillment house the United States, maintaining the majority the inventory Microsoft Press books. Books are marketed independent sales representatives and Microsoft Press sales personnel. Internationally, Microsoft Press has numerous international agreements with publishers for the worldwide distribution its books. Microsoft Press has granted publisher England the right distribute English language versions its books all countries except the United States, Canada, Central and South America, and certain Asian countries. most cases, Microsoft Press provides each publisher with book\' manuscript, and the publisher arranges for its translation and the printing, marketing, and distribution the translated version. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The software industry characterized extremely rapid technological change, which requires constant attention software technology trends and shifting consumer demand, and rapid product innovation. The pace change has recently become even greater due the surge interest the Internet, other forms online services, networking generally, and new programming languages, such Java. Most the Company\' software products are developed internally. The Company also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees third party development for certain products. Internal development enables Microsoft maintain closer technical control over the products and gives the Company the freedom designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. The Company has created substantial body proprietary development tools and has evolved development methodologies for creating and enhancing its products. These tools and methodologies are also designed simplify product\' portability among different operating systems, microprocessors, computers. Product documentation generally created internally. The Company believes that crucial factor the success new product getting market quickly respond new user needs advances PCs, servers, peripherals, and the Internet, without compromising product quality. The Company strives become informed possible the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. During fiscal years , , and , the Company spent $ million, $ million, and $ , million, respectively, product research and development activities. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, net revenues each those years. The Company committed continued high expenditures for research and product development. LOCALIZATION order best serve the needs users foreign countries, Microsoft "localizes" many its products reflect local languages and conventions. France, for example, all user messages and documentation are French and all monetary references are French francs, and the United Kingdom, monetary references are British pounds and user messages and documentation reflect certain British conventions. Various Microsoft products have been localized into more than languages. MANUFACTURING Microsoft contracts substantial portion its manufacturing activity third parties. Outside manufacturers produce various retail software packaged products, documentation, and hardware such mouse pointing devices, keyboards, and joysticks. There are other custom manufacturers the event that outsourced manufacturing becomes unavailable from current sources. recent years the Company\' sales mix has shifted corporate and OEM licenses from packaged products. Online distribution software may increase the future. During July , Microsoft sold its domestic manufacturing and distribution operation. The Company\' remaining manufacturing facilities are located Puerto Rico and Ireland. The Irish manufacturing facility replicates disks, assembles other purchased parts, and packages final product. The Puerto Rican facility manufactures -ROMs, assembles other purchased parts, and packages final product. Quality control tests are performed purchased parts, finished disks and -ROMs, and other products. The chief materials and components used Microsoft products include disks -ROMs, books, and multicolor printed materials. The Company often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. The Company has multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Microsoft aligns its sales and marketing people with several customer types, including end-users, organizations and enterprises, and OEMs. The Company\' sales and marketing staff seeks build long-term relationships with customers Microsoft products. addition the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing organizations: the . and Canada, Europe, and elsewhere the world (Other International). The end-user customer unit has responsibility for activities that target end-users who make individual buying decisions for the PCs they use work home. Most sales and marketing activities aimed end-user customers are performed this unit, including developing and administering reseller relationships; reseller sales terms and conditions; channel marketing and promotions; end-user marketing programs; support policies; and seminars, events, and sales training for resellers. The key products licensed and sold are the Company\' desktop operating systems, desktop applications, and interactive media products. The organization customer unit has responsibility for activities that target groups users small and medium organizations. The unit works with channel partners such distributors, aggregators, value-added resellers, and Solution Providers provide complete business solutions this customer segment. The unit\' sales and marketing activities include providing technical training Solution Providers and channel resellers; developing support policies; and supporting and providing seminars, events, and sales training for channel partners. The enterprise customer unit has responsibility for sales and marketing activities that target large organizations (enterprises). The unit works directly with these organizations, and through large account resellers, create enterprisewide, mission critical solutions business computing problems. Key products for the organization and enterprise customer units are the Company\' business systems; applications and Internet developer software; desktop productivity applications; and desktop operating systems. The OEM customer unit includes the sales force which works with original equipment manufacturers that preinstall Microsoft software their PCs. FINISHED GOODS CHANNELS DISTRIBUTORS AND RESELLERS: The Company markets its products the finished goods channels primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors and resellers. Distributors include Computer , Ingram Micro, Tech Data, and Merisel. Resellers include Egghead Software, Softbank, Software Spectrum, and Stream International. Microsoft has network field sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support. LARGE ACCOUNTS: The Company has program designed make easier for large organizations acquire and maintain Microsoft products. The program, Microsoft Select, offers flexible software acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially designed meet the needs large multinational organizations. Targeted audiences include technology specialists and influential end-users large enterprises. Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with the Microsoft network large account resellers. SOLUTION PROVIDERS: Microsoft\' Solution Providers program comprehensive support relationship with independent organizations that provide network and system integration, custom development, training, and technical support for business computing solutions. The program supports value-added resellers (VARs), system integrators, consultants, custom application developers, solution developers, Internet service and hosting organizations, independent content providers, and sitebuilders (companies that build Web sites for other companies), well technical support and training organizations. Under this business partnership strategy, the Company provides sales and product information, development services, early access Microsoft products, and customer support tools including priority telephone support, education, and business development support. ensure high-quality technical services for the Company\' products, Microsoft Solution Providers are required have Microsoft-certified professionals staff. CONSULTING SERVICES: The Company\' Consulting Services Division assists customers using the Company\' computer operating systems, applications, and communications products. The group works with Solution Providers and helps create enterprisewide computing solutions for large corporate accounts. DIRECT MARKETING: Microsoft promotes some its products through direct marketing techniques directed toward existing and potential users the Company\' products. Promotional materials are typically delivered through the mail, utilizing lists targeted individuals. Fulfillment product the end-user accomplished either direct shipment through resellers. INTERNATIONAL SALES SITES: The Company has established marketing and support subsidiaries more than countries. Sales are generally made the local sales subsidiary, while product delivered either the Company\' owned outsourced manufacturing operations. some locations, sales are made directly the Company from the . The Company\' international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are subject certain risks common foreign operations general, such governmental regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Microsoft hedges portion its foreign exchange risk. OEM CHANNEL The Company\' operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right distribute copies Microsoft\' products with their computers. The Company also markets certain desktop applications and interactive media programs OEMs under similar arrangements. addition, the Company markets the Microsoft Mouse and Natural Keyboard OEMs for distribution buyers their computers. almost all cases, the products are distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering one more its products with virtually all the major OEMs, including AST Research, Acer, Compaq, Digital Equipment Corporation, Dell, Fujitsu, Gateway , Hewlett-Packard, IBM, NEC, Olivetti, Packard Bell, Siemens, Toshiba, and Vobis. ADVERTISING The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms. Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials are targeted various end-user segments. The Company utilizes broad consumer media (television, radio, and business publications) and trade publications. Microsoft has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs are reimbursed for certain advertising expenditures. Microsoft also invests direct marketing and customer satisfaction areas. The Company maintains broad advertising campaign emphasizing the Microsoft brand identity. CUSTOMERS described above, Microsoft has four customer types: end-users, organizations, enterprises, and OEMs. Most end-users Microsoft products are individuals businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and home. These end-users obtain Microsoft products primarily through distributors, resellers, and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their hardware. Notes Financial Statements (see Item ) describe customers that represent more than % the Company\' revenues. The Company\' practice ship its products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from its customers and, consequently, backlog not significant. PRODUCT SUPPORT The Company provides product support coverage options meet the needs users Microsoft products. Support personnel are located various sites the . and various Microsoft subsidiaries. Certain support also supplied qualified third-party support organizations. The Company hires individuals with product expertise and provides them with productivity tools, continuous product education and training, and consistent processes deliver quality support for Microsoft products. Coverage options range from standard -charge toll telephone support fee-based offerings providing unlimited number telephone and electronic technical support for all Microsoft products hours per day, days per week. Users have access Microsoft KnowledgeBase, library thousands technical articles that updated regularly with useful information regarding Microsoft products. Microsoft provides access KnowledgeBase via MSN, America Online, CompuServe, GEnie, Prodigy, and the Internet. Additionally, the Company offers two information subscription services: Microsoft TechNet and Microsoft Developer Network. supplement alternative direct support, the Company enhances the third party support channel providing Microsoft Solution Providers with education, training, tools, and support. Microsoft Solution Providers include Authorized Training Centers, which offer advanced product education and certification Microsoft products; and Authorized Support Centers, which provide wide spectrum multinational support, multivendor support, and integration services. COMPETITION The software business intensely competitive and subject extremely rapid technological change. Microsoft faces formidable competition all areas its business activity (including competition from many companies much larger than Microsoft). The extremely rapid pace technological change constantly creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. The Company also faces constant competition from software pirates who unlawfully copy and distribute Microsoft\' copyrighted software products. THE INTERNET: The Company faces intense competition the development and marketing Internet (and intranet) software from wide variety companies and organizations including IBM, Netscape, Novell, Oracle, \'Reilly, Sun Microsystems, Apache Group, the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA), and the European Laboratory for Particle Physics (CERN). OPERATING SYSTEMS: Microsoft\' operating system products face substantial competition from wide variety companies. Major competitors such IBM, Apple Computer, Digital Equipment Corporation, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, and others, are vertically integrated both software development and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they preinstall computers their own manufacture. Many these operating system software products are also licensed third party OEMs for preinstallation their machines. Microsoft\' operating system products compete with UNIX-based operating systems from wide range companies including IBM, & , Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, The Santa Cruz Operation, and others. Variants UNIX run wide variety computer platforms and have gained increasing acceptance desktop operating systems. technology increasingly moves toward connectivity and communications, Microsoft\' operating system products will face increased competition from network server operating systems such Novell NetWare, Banyan Vines, the many variants UNIX, , "middleware" products such Lotus Notes from IBM, and intranet servers from Netscape and others. addition, Netscape seeking position its browser software computing platform that would perform many the functions performed operating systems from Microsoft and other vendors. BUSINESS SYSTEMS: The Company fairly recent entrant into the business providing enterprisewide computing solutions. Several competitors enjoy larger share sales and larger installed bases. Many companies offer operating system software for mainframes and midrange computers, including IBM, DEC, Hewlett-Packard, and Sun Microsystems. Since legacy business systems are typically support-intensive, these competitors also offer substantive support services. Software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Oracle, Sybase, and Informix. There are also several software vendors who offer connectivity servers. mentioned above, there are numerous companies and organizations that offer Internet and intranet server software which compete against the Company\' business systems. Additionally, IBM has large installed base Lotus Notes and :Mail, both which compete with the Company\' workgroup and mail products. DESKTOP APPLICATIONS: The Company\' competitors include many software application vendors, such IBM (Lotus), Oracle, Apple (Claris), and Corel. IBM and Corel have large installed bases with their spreadsheet and word processor products, respectively, and both appear have adopted aggressive pricing strategies recent months. Also, IBM and Apple preinstall certain their software products various models their PCs, competing directly with Microsoft application software. ONLINE SERVICES: enormous range companies, including media conglomerates, telephone companies, cable companies, retailers, hardware manufacturers, and software developers, are competing make online services widely available computer users. Microsoft\' new online services network, MSN, faces formidable competition from both established online networks, such America Online, CompuServe, Prodigy, and impending entrants. MSN also faces competition from online services that are offered users directly via the Internet, including, particular, the World Wide Web. INTERACTIVE MEDIA: The Company\' Interactive Media division faces many smaller but focused competitors, particularly the areas entertainment and education. Many these competitors have strong brand identification. Consolidation this area software development has made certain competitors even stronger. Examples competitors include Intuit, Broderbund, Electronic Arts, Softkey (including The Learning Company and Compton\' ), Voyager, Edmark, CUC International (including Sierra Line and Davidson Associates), and Dorling Kindersley. Still other competitors own branded content, such Disney and Lucas Arts. Additionally, platforms become more powerful, -based games will compete head- -head with games created for proprietary systems such Nintendo and Sega. Input devices face substantial competition from computer manufacturers, since computers are typically sold with keyboard and mouse, and other manufacturers these devices. NEWS SERVICES: The Company\' MSNBC joint ventures face formidable competition from another, more established -hour cable and Internet news organization, CNN. Additionally, the Fox network has announced plans for its own -hour cable news service. MSNBC also competes with traditional news media such newspapers and broadcast , and Internet news services. DEVELOPER: The Company\' developer products compete against offerings from Borland, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Sybase, Symantec, and many other companies. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors marketing software are product\' features and functions, ease use, reliability, price relative performance, timeliness delivery, reputation, and availability and quality support services. There assurance that the Company\' competitive position will not adversely affected one more these factors the future, particularly view the fast pace technological change the software industry. EMPLOYEES June , , the Company employed , people full-time basis, , domestically and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales, marketing, and support, , manufacturing and distribution, and , finance and administration. Microsoft\' success highly dependent its ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. date, the Company believes has been successful its efforts recruit qualified employees, but there assurance that will continue successful the future. None the Company\' employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes relations with its employees are excellent. Item . Properties The Company\' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington. There are two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company constructing three office buildings comprising approximately , square feet space, which are expected completed the summer . Additionally, construction continuing another series office buildings with approximately , square feet space. Occupancy this site will phased starting the winter and completed spring . The Company owns all its corporate campus. The Company sold its domestic manufacturing and distribution operation Snohomish County, Washington, July but retains , square foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rican facility, which began operation April , leased under -year lease, with option renew for additional years. The Company\' European manufacturing operation consists , square foot facility situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland site also includes office buildings with , square feet for international localization. The Ireland facilities are fully owned the Company. The Company constructing office building complex with , square feet acres land near Redding, England. Occupancy expected the fall . Les Ulis, France, the Company owns , square foot office building four acres land. addition, the Company leases office space numerous locations the United States and many other countries. Item . Legal Proceedings connection with ongoing investigation, the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice requested information from Microsoft September concerning Web browsers. Management currently believes that resolution this matter will not have material adverse impact its financial position results operations. Additionally, the information set forth Notes Financial Statements--Commitments and Contingencies page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . PART Item . Market for Registrant\' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Selected Financial Data The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The information set forth pages - , , and the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The following financial statements for the Company and independent auditors\' report set forth pages , , , , - , and the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . - Income Statements for the three years ended June , - Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June , - Balance Sheets June , and - Stockholders\' Equity Statements for the three years ended June , - Notes Financial Statements - Independent Auditors\' Report Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: NAME AGE POSITION WITH THE COMPANY William . Gates Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer Executive Vice President, Sales and Support Robert . Herbold Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer Frank . (Pete) Higgins Group Vice President, Applications and Content Paul . Maritz Group Vice President, Platforms Nathan . Myhrvold Group Vice President, Applications and Content Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing James . Allchin Senior Vice President, Desktop and Business Systems Division Joachim Kempin Senior Vice President, OEM Sales Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division William . Neukom Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Brad . Silverberg Senior Vice President, Internet Platform and Tools Division Patricia . Stonesifer Senior Vice President, Interactive Media Division Bernard . Vergnes Senior Vice President, Microsoft; President, Microsoft Europe Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer . Gates -founded Microsoft and has been its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board since the original partnership was incorporated . . Ballmer was named Executive Vice President, Sales and Support February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & \' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Higgins was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May . was named Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since and previously, Vice President, Analysis Business Unit since . . Higgins joined Microsoft . . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms May . was named Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . . Myhrvold was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May . was named Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology July . had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since . . Myhrvold joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Desktop and Business Systems Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division November and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM Sales August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems Division May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology Group December . Previously, . Mundie had been CEO Alliant Computer Systems Corporation, which declared bankruptcy May , and was liquidated. . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined Microsoft Vice President. . Silverberg was named Senior Vice President, Internet Platform and Tools Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Personal Systems Division November after joining Microsoft August Vice President, Personal Operating Systems Division. . Stonesifer was named Senior Vice President, Interactive Media Division February . She was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Division November , after having been Vice President, Consumer Division since June . She had been Vice President, Support since and General Manager Product Support Services since . . Stonesifer joined Microsoft . . Vergnes Senior Vice President Microsoft and was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes joined Microsoft . . Brown was named Chief Financial Officer August and Vice President, Finance April . was named Treasurer shortly after joining Microsoft January . Item . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions None. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Restated Articles Incorporation ( ) Bylaws ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Incorporated Reference Pages - , , and Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages , , , , - , and Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant ( ) . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , - ---------------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Michael . Brown ---------------------------------------------- Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . SIGNATURE TITLE / / William . Gates - ----------------------------- William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors and Chief Executive Officer / / Paul . Allen - ----------------------------- Paul . Allen Director - ----------------------------- Jill . Barad Director / / Richard . Hackborn - ----------------------------- Richard . Hackborn Director / / David . Marquardt - ----------------------------- David . Marquardt Director / / Robert . \'Brien - ----------------------------- Robert . \'Brien Director / / . . Reed, . - ----------------------------- . . Reed, . Director / / Jon . Shirley - ----------------------------- Jon . Shirley Director / / Michael . Brown - ----------------------------- Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': "Properties The Company' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington. There are two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company constructing three office buildings comprising approximately , square feet space, which are expected completed the summer . Additionally, construction continuing another series office buildings with approximately , square feet space. Occupancy this site will phased starting the winter and completed spring . The Company owns all its corporate campus. The Company sold its domestic manufacturing and distribution operation Snohomish County, Washington, July but retains , square foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rican facility, which began operation April , leased under -year lease, with option renew for additional years. The Company' European manufacturing operation consists , square foot facility situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland site also includes office buildings with , square feet for international localization. The Ireland facilities are fully owned the Company. The Company constructing office building complex with , square feet acres land near Redding, England. Occupancy expected the fall . Les Ulis, France, the Company owns , square foot office building four acres land. addition, the Company leases office space numerous locations the United States and many other countries. ", 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings connection with ongoing investigation, the Antitrust Division the . Department Justice requested information from Microsoft September concerning Web browsers. Management currently believes that resolution this matter will not have material adverse impact its financial position results operations. Additionally, the information set forth Notes Financial Statements--Commitments and Contingencies page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . PART ', 'item 5. ': "Market for Registrant' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ", 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ', 'item 7. ': "Management' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The information set forth pages - , , and the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ", 'item 7a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 8. ': "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The following financial statements for the Company and independent auditors' report set forth pages , , , , - , and the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . - Income Statements for the three years ended June , - Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June , - Balance Sheets June , and - Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June , - Notes Financial Statements - Independent Auditors' Report ", 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: NAME AGE POSITION WITH THE COMPANY William . Gates Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer Executive Vice President, Sales and Support Robert . Herbold Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer Frank . (Pete) Higgins Group Vice President, Applications and Content Paul . Maritz Group Vice President, Platforms Nathan . Myhrvold Group Vice President, Applications and Content Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing James . Allchin Senior Vice President, Desktop and Business Systems Division Joachim Kempin Senior Vice President, OEM Sales Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division William . Neukom Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Brad . Silverberg Senior Vice President, Internet Platform and Tools Division Patricia . Stonesifer Senior Vice President, Interactive Media Division Bernard . Vergnes Senior Vice President, Microsoft; President, Microsoft Europe Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer . Gates -founded Microsoft and has been its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board since the original partnership was incorporated . . Ballmer was named Executive Vice President, Sales and Support February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & \' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Higgins was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May . was named Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since and previously, Vice President, Analysis Business Unit since . . Higgins joined Microsoft . . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms May . was named Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . . Myhrvold was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May . was named Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology July . had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since . . Myhrvold joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Desktop and Business Systems Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division November and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM Sales August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems Division May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology Group December . Previously, . Mundie had been CEO Alliant Computer Systems Corporation, which declared bankruptcy May , and was liquidated. . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined Microsoft Vice President. . Silverberg was named Senior Vice President, Internet Platform and Tools Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Personal Systems Division November after joining Microsoft August Vice President, Personal Operating Systems Division. . Stonesifer was named Senior Vice President, Interactive Media Division February . She was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Division November , after having been Vice President, Consumer Division since June . She had been Vice President, Support since and General Manager Product Support Services since . . Stonesifer joined Microsoft . . Vergnes Senior Vice President Microsoft and was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes joined Microsoft . . Brown was named Chief Financial Officer August and Vice President, Finance April . was named Treasurer shortly after joining Microsoft January . Item . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions None. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Restated Articles Incorporation ( ) Bylaws ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Incorporated Reference Pages - , , and Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages , , , , - , and Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant ( ) . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , - ---------------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Michael . Brown ---------------------------------------------- Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . SIGNATURE TITLE / / William . Gates - ----------------------------- William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors and Chief Executive Officer / / Paul . Allen - ----------------------------- Paul . Allen Director - ----------------------------- Jill . Barad Director / / Richard . Hackborn - ----------------------------- Richard . Hackborn Director / / David . Marquardt - ----------------------------- David . Marquardt Director / / Robert . \'Brien - ----------------------------- Robert . \'Brien Director / / . . Reed, . - ----------------------------- . . Reed, . Director / / Jon . Shirley - ----------------------------- Jon . Shirley Director / / Michael . Brown - ----------------------------- Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: NAME AGE POSITION WITH THE COMPANY William . Gates Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer Executive Vice President, Sales and Support Robert . Herbold Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer Frank . (Pete) Higgins Group Vice President, Applications and Content Paul . Maritz Group Vice President, Platforms Nathan . Myhrvold Group Vice President, Applications and Content Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing James . Allchin Senior Vice President, Desktop and Business Systems Division Joachim Kempin Senior Vice President, OEM Sales Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division William . Neukom Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Brad . Silverberg Senior Vice President, Internet Platform and Tools Division Patricia . Stonesifer Senior Vice President, Interactive Media Division Bernard . Vergnes Senior Vice President, Microsoft; President, Microsoft Europe Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer . Gates -founded Microsoft and has been its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board since the original partnership was incorporated . . Ballmer was named Executive Vice President, Sales and Support February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & \' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Higgins was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May . was named Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since and previously, Vice President, Analysis Business Unit since . . Higgins joined Microsoft . . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms May . was named Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . . Myhrvold was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May . was named Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology July . had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since . . Myhrvold joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Desktop and Business Systems Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division November and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM Sales August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems Division May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology Group December . Previously, . Mundie had been CEO Alliant Computer Systems Corporation, which declared bankruptcy May , and was liquidated. . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined Microsoft Vice President. . Silverberg was named Senior Vice President, Internet Platform and Tools Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Personal Systems Division November after joining Microsoft August Vice President, Personal Operating Systems Division. . Stonesifer was named Senior Vice President, Interactive Media Division February . She was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Division November , after having been Vice President, Consumer Division since June . She had been Vice President, Support since and General Manager Product Support Services since . . Stonesifer joined Microsoft . . Vergnes Senior Vice President Microsoft and was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes joined Microsoft . . Brown was named Chief Financial Officer August and Vice President, Finance April . was named Treasurer shortly after joining Microsoft January . ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions None. PART ', 'item 14. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Restated Articles Incorporation ( ) Bylaws ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Incorporated Reference Pages - , , and Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages , , , , - , and Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant ( ) . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , - ---------------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Michael . Brown ---------------------------------------------- Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . SIGNATURE TITLE / / William . Gates - ----------------------------- William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors and Chief Executive Officer / / Paul . Allen - ----------------------------- Paul . Allen Director - ----------------------------- Jill . Barad Director / / Richard . Hackborn - ----------------------------- Richard . Hackborn Director / / David . Marquardt - ----------------------------- David . Marquardt Director / / Robert . \'Brien - ----------------------------- Robert . \'Brien Director / / . . Reed, . - ----------------------------- . . Reed, . Director / / Jon . Shirley - ----------------------------- Jon . Shirley Director / / Michael . Brown - ----------------------------- Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}