{'item 1. ': 'Business Overview Our mission give people the power share and make the world more open and connected. build technology enable faster, easier and richer communication. Hundreds millions people use Facebook\' websites and mobile applications every day stay connected with their friends and family, discover and learn what going the world around them, and share and express what matters them the people they care about. Our business focuses creating value for users, marketers, and developers. How Create Value for People Who Use Facebook Our top priority build useful and engaging products that enable people : • Connect and Share with Friends. With more than billion monthly active users (MAUs) worldwide, Facebook users are able find and stay connected with their friends, family, and colleagues Facebook. • Discover and Learn. believe that people come Facebook discover and learn more about what going the world around them, particularly the lives their friends and family and with public figures and organizations that interest them. Each person\' experience Facebook unique based the content shared his her friends and connections. • Express Yourself. enable people share their opinions, ideas, photos and videos, and activities with audiences ranging from their closest friends the public large, giving everyone voice within the Facebook community. Through Facebook\' privacy and sharing settings, people can control what they share and with whom they share . • Stay Connected Everywhere. People can access Facebook through our website, mobile sites, smartphone applications, and feature phone products. Through mobile and web applications built developers that integrate with Facebook, people can interact with their Facebook friends while playing games, listening music, watching movies, reading news, and engaging other activities across the web and mobile devices. had million daily active users (DAUs) average December , increase % compared December . had million DAUs who accessed Facebook from mobile device average December , increase % compared December . \\ How Create Value for Marketers Facebook focuses providing value for all kinds marketers, including brand marketers, direct marketers, small and medium-sized businesses, and developers. help marketers achieve their business objectives, such increasing online sales, -store sales, awareness their brands, products, services. generate the substantial majority our revenue from selling advertising placements marketers. offer marketers the following benefits: • Targeted Reach. With over billion MAUs using our service every month, Facebook offers marketers the ability reach their existing and prospective customers. Marketers can target their ads people Facebook based demographic factors such age, location, gender, education, and specific interests that users have chosen share with . addition, marketers may choose match their own data third-party data with ours, they can find existing customers potential new ones directly Facebook. also offer marketers the ability include social context with their marketing messages. Social context information that highlights friend\' connections with particular brand business, and believe that social context improves effectiveness. • Engagement. offer marketers access one the most highly engaged consumer networks the world. According eMarketer, , people spent more time with digital media than watching for the first time. believe marketing dollars will follow this shift consumer time, and offer marketers place shift their spend given our large and highly engaged audience. • Facebook Ads . Our ads offer marketers the opportunity communicate their messages consumers and direct them specific destinations such web page Facebook Page. Marketers purchase ads that can appear multiple locations including the right-hand side most page types personal computers and the News Feed personal computers mobile devices. Our ads are effectively integrated into the Facebook experience manner designed deliver impressive returns for marketers while optimizing the user experience. • Facebook System. Our creation tools are designed align with marketers’ advertising goals. When marketers create campaign Facebook, they can specify their marketing objectives and the types people they want reach. addition, marketers can use our products such Custom Audiences more precisely target people such those who have previously expressed interest that particular marketer. Using our system, marketers indicate the maximum price they are willing pay for their , either per click (CPC), per action (CPA), per thousand impressions (CPM), and their maximum budget. Our system also supports guaranteed delivery fixed number impressions for fixed price. Facebook\' serving technology dynamically determines the best available show each user based the combination the user\' unique attributes and the real-time comparison bids from eligible ads. enable marketers deploy and adjust campaigns rapidly. • Measurement. Marketers can use our platform track and optimize both the -store and online performance their campaigns. Offline and online conversion measurement and partnerships with third parties help marketers understand how their investments impact specific business outcomes ( . -store sales, offsite conversions, application installs). These insights also help marketers make modifications their campaigns maximize results. How Create Value for Developers Facebook provides set development tools and application programming interfaces (APIs) that enable developers easily integrate with Facebook create mobile and web applications. are focused providing developers with unique tools support their mobile and web applications. generate revenue from developers who use our Payments infrastructure sell virtual and digital goods our users personal computers. also generate revenue from developers who choose purchase ads from . support developers’ efforts build, grow, and monetize their mobile and web applications: • Build. provide tools and services that accelerate and enhance cross-platform mobile and web application development. With Facebook Login, developers can offer their users single identity across platforms, which provides fast and secure way for people sign . Facebook Login also enables developers design applications that feel familiar each user bringing their Facebook identity the application experience. Through our Parse service, enable developers focus creating engaging front-end user experiences while using our service handle complex back-end infrastructure, services and server maintenance. • Grow. provide developers with tools increase the exposure, distribution and engagement their mobile and web applications. using our tools for sharing, invites, requests, and mobile application ads, developers have unique ways drive application discovery and user engagement. Mobile application ads enable developers grow awareness and usage their applications and can feature call action such "install" "shop now." Mobile application ads for "install" actions appear the Facebook News Feed and take people directly the application store download. mobile developer would like target users who already have their application installed, they can link users from the News Feed customized, specific location inside the application, such sale, promotion specific content such new album hotel listing. addition, social plugins, such the Like button, are social features that developers can easily integrate with their websites incorporating few lines HTML code. Social plugins enable developers provide engaging and personalized social experiences their users. • Monetize. the web, provide online Payments infrastructure that enables developers receive payments from our users easy- -use, secure, and trusted environment. Our Payments infrastructure enables users personal computers purchase virtual digital goods from developers and third-party websites using debit and credit cards, PayPal, mobile phone payments, gift cards other methods. Currently, substantially all our Payments revenue from users\' purchases virtual goods used social games personal computers. receive fee % when users make such purchases from developers using our Payments infrastructure . , developers received more than $ billion from transactions enabled our Payments infrastructure. While mobile applications can also integrate with Facebook, mobile applications not process transactions using our Payments infrastructure. Our Products • Facebook. The Facebook mobile app and website enable people connect, share, discover, and communicate with each other mobile devices and personal computers. Facebook free and available throughout the world. The Facebook website and mobile app includes the following features: - News Feed. News Feed the core feature person\' homepage the Facebook website and mobile app and regularly updating list stories from friends, Pages, and other entities which the person connected. includes posts, photos, event updates, group memberships, application updates, and other activities. Each person\' News Feed personalized based his her interests and the sharing activity his her friends and connections. Stories each person\' News Feed are prioritized based several factors, including how many friends have Liked Commented certain piece content, who posted the content, and what type content . - Timeline. Timeline allows people organize and display the events and activities that matter most them, enabling them curate their memories searchable personal narrative that organized chronologically. People choose what information share their Timeline, such their interests, photos, education, work history, relationship status, and contact information, and people can control with whom content shared their Timeline. - Graph Search . Graph Search structured search tool that enables people find people, places, photos and other information shared with them Facebook. People can search using simple phrases such "Photos friends New York" "Restaurants London that friends have been ," and browse the results. Once turned , Graph Search replaces the search bar the top every page Facebook. Graph Search beta available the web for people using the site English, and are planning expand Graph Search mobile and international audiences the future. • Messenger. Messenger mobile- -mobile messaging application available iOS and Android phones. Messenger works similarly texting (SMS) let people reach others instantly. • Instagram. Instagram mobile app and website that enable people take photos videos, customize them with filter effects, and share them with friends and followers photo feed send them directly friends. Our Strategy are the early stages pursuing our mission make the world more open and connected. believe have significant opportunity further enhance the value deliver users, developers, and marketers. Key elements our strategy are: • Expand Our Global Community. There are more than billion internet users personal computers, and more than three billion mobile users worldwide according GSMA Wireless Intelligence, and aspire someday connect all these people. December , , had billion MAUs globally. intend increase the size our network continuing our marketing and user acquisition efforts, enhancing our products including mobile applications, and making Facebook more easily accessible people throughout the world. are focused increasing the number people using Facebook across all geographies, including relatively less-developed markets. Our investments include efforts make Facebook accessible feature phones, reducing the amount data required utilize our service, and investing increasing the number people who have access the internet including through industry partnerships such Internet org. • Develop Great Social Products Increase Engagement. prioritize product development investments that believe will drive user engagement. continue invest significantly improving our existing products such News Feed, Timeline, and Graph Search and our stand-alone mobile applications such Messenger and Instagram. For example, are continually improving our ability analyze and organize vast amounts information real time enable select the unique content that believe will most interesting show each user. are also focused developing new products, including new stand-alone applications, increase engagement. Increasing user engagement core part our strategy maximize our long-term business performance and therefore are willing sacrifice short-term monetization order increase engagement. • Increase the Utility our Service and Provide the Most Compelling User Experience. aim maximize the utility create for people using our service. are investing significantly improving our products and developing new products, including new stand-alone applications, order create more value and make the Facebook experience more useful. also enable developers integrate their mobile and web applications with Facebook order increase utility for our users. • Improve Our Products. are investing improve our products order attract more marketers work with Facebook, create more value for marketers, and enhance marketers\' ability make their advertising more relevant for users. Our advertising strategy centers the belief that products that are relevant, well-targeted, social, and well-integrated with other content Facebook can enhance the user experience while providing attractive return for marketers. intend invest additional products for marketers while continuing balance our monetization objectives with our commitment optimizing the user experience. will continue work develop new tools that help marketers target their ads most effectively and thereby increase their return spend. also continue focus analytics and measurement tools enable marketers evaluate and improve the effectiveness campaigns Facebook. • Excel Mobile Product Development and Make our Mobile Products Fast, Reliable, and Easily Available. devote substantial resources our development mobile products and experiences for wide range platforms, including smartphones, feature phones and tablets. addition, are working across the mobile industry with operators, hardware manufacturers, operating system providers, and developers improve the Facebook experience mobile devices and make Facebook available more people around the world. had million MAUs who used Facebook mobile products December , . believe that mobile usage Facebook critical user growth and engagement over the long term. • Enable Developers Build, Grow, and Monetize Their Mobile and Web Applications . The success Facebook’ developer ecosystem important part our strategy. continue invest tools and APIs that enhance the ability developers who integrate with Facebook build valuable and engaging products. Developers can create value for Facebook multiple ways, including: purchasing advertising Facebook; using our Payment infrastructure facilitate transactions with users personal computers; sharing content with Facebook that makes our products more engaging; and contributing our understanding users’ interests and preferences. • Build Scalable Infrastructure Provide the Most Compelling, Robust, and Reliable Product Experience. are investing software and hardware infrastructure that enables provide unique, personalized experience each our users around the world. believe the speed and reliability our products are important competitive advantages. Building and Maintaining User Trust Trust cornerstone our business. dedicate significant resources the goal building user trust through developing and implementing programs designed protect user privacy, promote safe environment, and assure the security user data. The resources dedicate this goal include engineers, analysts, lawyers, policy experts, and operations specialists, well hardware and software from leading vendors and solutions have designed and built. • Privacy and Sharing. People come Facebook connect and share with different audiences. Protecting user privacy important part our product development process. Our objective give users choice over what they share and with whom they share . This effort fundamental our business and focuses control, transparency, and accountability. - Control. believe that providing our users with clear and easy- -use controls, will continue promote trust our products. For example, when user posts status update uploads photo Facebook, our -line controls allow the user select his her audience the same time that she publishing the post. addition, provide other data management tools. "Activity Log" unified tool that people can use review and manage the content they have posted and the actions they have taken Facebook. When using the Activity Log, user can view his her activity with particular application, delete specific post, change who can see photo, remove application completely. Additionally, our "Download Your Information" tool enables users access and store their personal information off Facebook. - Transparency. Our Data Use Policy describes plain language our data use practices and how privacy works Facebook. also offer number tools and features that provide users with transparency about their information Facebook. Our application settings feature enables users view each the applications they have chosen use, the information needed each application, and the audience with whom the user has chosen share his her interactions with each application. believe that this transparency enables people make more informed decisions about their activities Facebook. - Accountability. continue build new procedural safeguards part our comprehensive privacy program. These include dedicated team privacy professionals who are involved new product and feature development from design through launch; ongoing review and monitoring the way data handled existing features and applications; and rigorous data security practices. regularly work with online privacy and safety experts and regulators around the world. August , the Federal Trade Commission formally approved -year settlement agreement requiring enhance our privacy program and complete biennial third-party assessments. also have undergone two audits the Office the Irish Data Protection Commissioner. The audits comprehensively reviewed our compliance with Irish data protection law, which grounded European data protection principles. part the audit process, agreed enhance various data protection and privacy practices ensure compliance with the law and adherence industry best practices. • Safety. design our products include safety tools. These tools are coupled with educational resources and partnerships with online safety experts offer protections for all users, particularly teenagers. take into account the unique needs teenagers who use our service and employ age-appropriate settings that restrict their visibility, limit the audience with whom they can share, and help prevent unwanted contact from strangers. Our abuse reporting infrastructure allows anyone Facebook report inappropriate, offensive, dangerous content through "report" links found throughout our site. have enhanced this reporting system include "Social Reporting," which gives users the option report content , report content trusted friend, block the person who posted the content with one easy- -use tool. Our Safety Advisory Board, comprised five leading online safety organizations from around the world, advises product design and helps create comprehensive safety resources for everyone who uses our service. These resources are located our multimedia Family Safety Center our website, which also offers special information for parents, educators, teenagers, and members the law enforcement community. • Security. invest technology, processes, and people part our commitment safeguarding our users\' information. use variety techniques protect the data that are entrusted with, and rely multiple layers network segregation using firewalls protect against attacks unauthorized access. also employ proprietary technologies protect our users. For example, suspect that user\' account may have been compromised, may use process that refer "social authentication" validate that the person accessing the account the actual account holder. The process social authentication may include asking the person accessing the account identify photos the account holder\' friends. Our security team actively scans for security vulnerabilities using commercial tools, penetration tests, code security reviews, and internal and external audits. also have network geographically distributed single-tenant data centers, and take measures protect the information stored these data centers. Competition Our business characterized innovation, rapid change, and disruptive technologies. face significant competition every aspect our business, including from companies that provide tools facilitate the sharing information, companies that enable marketers display advertising, and companies that provide development platforms for application developers. compete attract, engage, and retain users, attract and retain marketers, attract and retain developers build compelling mobile and web applications that integrate with Facebook, and attract and retain highly talented individuals, especially software engineers, designers, and product managers. compete with the following: • Companies that offer full-featured products that replicate the range communications and related capabilities provide. These offerings include, for example, Google+, which Google has integrated with certain its products, including search and Android, well other, largely regional, social networks that have strong positions particular countries. • Companies that develop applications, particularly mobile applications, that provide social functionality, such messaging, photo- and video-sharing, and micro-blogging. • Companies that provide web- and mobile-based information and entertainment products and services that are designed engage users and capture time spent online and mobile devices. • Traditional and online businesses that provide media for marketers reach their audiences and develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. introduce new products, our existing products evolve, other companies introduce new products and services, may become subject additional competition. Technology have assembled team highly skilled engineers and computer scientists whose expertise spans broad range technical areas. make significant investments product and feature development, data management and personalization technologies, large-scale systems and scalable infrastructure, mobile technologies, and advertising technologies, including: • Product and Feature Development. aim improve our existing products continuously and develop new products for our users, developers, and marketers. Our product development philosophy centered continuous innovation creating products that are social design, which means that our products are designed place people and their social interactions the core the product experience. • Data Management and Personalization Technologies. provide each user with personalized Facebook experience, must process and analyze significant amount content shared our users, developers, and marketers and surface the most relevant content real time. such, invest extensively developing technologies and analytics areas including content optimization and delivery, graph query, media storage and serving, large-scale data management, and software performance. • Large-Scale Systems and Scalable Infrastructure. Our products are built shared computing infrastructure. use combination off-the-shelf and custom software running clusters commodity computers amass substantial computing capability. Our infrastructure has enabled the storage and processing large datasets and facilitated the deployment our products global scale. our user base grows, and the level engagement and sharing from our users continues increase, our computing needs continue expand. aim provide our products rapidly and reliably all users around the world, including countries where not expect significant short-term monetization. • Mobile Technologies. order provide high-quality experience wide variety mobile devices and operating systems, invest developing novel techniques and technologies including: custom graphics rendering, operating system customizations, development tools, systems for customizing the user experience based variety factors, and systems for monitoring the behavior the applications the field. • Advertising Technologies. invest extensively advertising technology capable serving billions impressions every day while maximizing the relevance each impression selected users based upon the information that users have chosen share. Our system manages our entire set ads, the selected audiences, and the marketers\' bids determine which ads show each person and how display them for every page Facebook. use advanced user action prediction system that weighs many real-time updated features using automated learning techniques. Our technology incorporates the estimated user action rate with both the marketer\' bid and user relevancy signal select what believe the optimal ads show. Our research and development expenses were $ billion both and and $ million . For information about our research and development expenses, see Part , Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations - Results Operations - Research and development" this Annual Report Form - . Sales and Operations The majority our marketers use our self-service platform establish accounts and launch and manage their advertising campaigns. also have global sales force that focused attracting and retaining marketers and providing support them throughout the stages the advertising campaign cycle from pre-purchase decision making real-time optimizations post-campaign analytics. work directly with marketers, through traditional advertising agencies, and with ecosystem agencies that have specialized focus Facebook advertising. currently operate more than sales offices around the globe. have operations teams provide support for our users, developers, and marketers five regional centers located Menlo Park, California; Austin, Texas; Dublin, Ireland; Hyderabad, India; and Singapore. also invest and rely self-service tools provide direct customer support our users, developers, and marketers. Marketing date, the Facebook user community has grown virally with users inviting their friends connect with them, supported internal efforts stimulate user awareness and interest. addition have invested and will continue invest marketing our services build our brand and user base around the world. leverage the utility our products and our social distribution channels our most effective marketing tools. addition, undertake various user acquisition efforts and regularly host events and conferences engage with developers and marketers. Intellectual Property establish and protect our proprietary rights, rely combination patents, patent applications, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, including know-how, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights. addition, further protect our proprietary rights, from time time have purchased patents and patent applications from third parties. not believe that our proprietary technology dependent any single patent copyright groups related patents copyrights. believe the duration our patents adequate relative the expected lives our products. Government Regulation are subject number . federal and state, and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business the Internet. Many these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested courts, and could interpreted ways that could harm our business. These may involve user privacy, rights publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection minors, consumer protection, taxation and online payment services. particular, are subject federal, state, and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection user data. Foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations can more restrictive than those the United States. . federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can subject significant change. addition, the application and interpretation these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly the new and rapidly-evolving industry which operate, and may interpreted and applied inconsistently from country country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. There are also number legislative proposals pending before the . Congress, various state legislative bodies, and foreign governments concerning data protection which could affect . For example, the European Commission currently considering data protection regulation that may include operational requirements for companies that receive personal data that are different than those currently place the European Union, and that may also include significant penalties for non-compliance. August , the FTC approved settlement agreement with resolve investigation into various practices, that, among other things, requires complete -annual independent privacy assessments and establish and refine certain practices with respect treatment user information and the privacy settings offer. Violation existing future regulatory orders consent decrees could subject substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results operations. Various laws and regulations the United States and abroad, such the Bank Secrecy Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and the Credit CARD Act, impose certain anti-money laundering requirements companies that are financial institutions that provide financial products and services. Under these laws and regulations, financial institutions are broadly defined include money services businesses such money transmitters, check cashers, and sellers issuers stored value. Requirements imposed financial institutions under these laws include customer identification and verification programs, record retention policies and procedures, and transaction reporting. increase flexibility how our use Payments may evolve and mitigate regulatory uncertainty, have received certain money transmitter licenses the United States and expect apply for certain regulatory licenses Europe, which will generally require demonstrate compliance with many domestic and foreign laws relating money transmission, gift cards and other prepaid access instruments, electronic funds transfers, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, gambling, banking and lending, and import and export restrictions. Employees December , , had , employees. Corporate Information were incorporated Delaware July . completed our initial public offering May and our Class common stock listed The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol " ." Our principal executive offices are located Willow Road, Menlo Park, California , and our telephone number ( ) - . Facebook, the Facebook logo, , the Like button, Instagram and our other registered common law trademarks, service marks, trade names appearing this Annual Report Form - are the property Facebook, Inc. its affiliates. Other trademarks, service marks, trade names appearing this Annual Report Form - are the property their respective owners. Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue Information about segment and geographic revenue set forth Notes and our Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . Available Information Our website address www facebook com. Our Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act), are filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). are subject the informational requirements the Exchange Act and file furnish reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available free charge our website investor com when such reports are available the SEC\' website. use our investor com website means disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation . Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions investor com , addition following SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The public may read and copy any materials filed Facebook with the SEC the SEC\' Public Reference Room Street, , Room , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC www sec gov. The contents the websites referred above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Certain factors may have material adverse effect our business, financial condition, and results operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, addition other information contained this Annual Report Form - , including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are unaware , that currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. any the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results operations, and future prospects could materially and adversely affected. that event, the trading price our Class common stock could decline, and you could lose part all your investment. Risks Related Our Business and Industry fail retain existing users add new users, our users decrease their level engagement with Facebook, our revenue, financial results, and business may significantly harmed. The size our user base and our users\' level engagement are critical our success. Our financial performance has been and will continue significantly determined our success adding, retaining, and engaging active users. anticipate that our active user growth rate will continue decline over time the size our active user base increases, and achieve higher market penetration rates. people not perceive our products useful, reliable, and trustworthy, may not able attract retain users otherwise maintain increase the frequency and duration their engagement. number other social networking companies that achieved early popularity have since seen their active user bases levels engagement decline, some cases precipitously. There guarantee that will not experience similar erosion our active user base engagement levels. Our user engagement patterns have changed over time and can difficult measure, particularly users engage increasingly via mobile devices and introduce new and different services. Any number factors could potentially negatively affect user retention, growth, and engagement, including : • users increasingly engage with other products activities; • fail introduce new products that users find engaging introduce new products services that are not favorably received; • users feel that their Facebook experience diminished result the decisions make with respect the frequency, prominence, and size ads that display, the quality the ads displayed; • user behavior Facebook changes result increasing use mobile devices; • are unable continue develop products for mobile devices that users find engaging, that work with variety mobile operating systems and networks, and that achieve high level market acceptance; • there are changes user sentiment about the quality usefulness our products concerns related privacy and sharing, safety, security, other factors; • are unable manage and prioritize information ensure users are presented with content that interesting, useful, and relevant them; • users adopt new technologies where Facebook may not featured otherwise available; • there are adverse changes our products that are mandated legislation, regulatory authorities, litigation, including settlements consent decrees; • technical other problems prevent from delivering our products rapid and reliable manner otherwise affect the user experience, such any failure prevent spam similar content; • adopt policies procedures related areas such sharing user data that are perceived negatively our users the general public; • elect focus our user growth and engagement efforts more longer-term initiatives, initiatives designed attract and retain users and engagement are unsuccessful discontinued, whether result actions , third parties otherwise; • fail provide adequate customer service users, developers, marketers; • , developers whose products are integrated with Facebook, other companies our industry are the subject adverse media reports other negative publicity; • our current future products, such our development tools and application programming interfaces that enable developers build mobile and web applications, reduce user activity Facebook making easier for our users interact and share third-party mobile and web applications. are unable maintain increase our user base and user engagement, our revenue and financial results may adversely affected. Any decrease user retention, growth, engagement could render Facebook less attractive users, developers, and marketers, which may have material and adverse impact our revenue, business, financial condition, and results operations. the extent our active user growth rate slows, will become increasingly dependent our ability maintain increase levels user engagement and monetization order drive revenue growth. generate substantial majority our revenue from advertising. The loss marketers, reduction spending marketers with Facebook, could seriously harm our business. The substantial majority our revenue currently generated from third parties advertising Facebook. For , , and , advertising accounted for % , % and % , respectively, our revenue. common the industry, our marketers not have long-term advertising commitments with . Many our marketers spend only relatively small portion their overall advertising budget with . expect our ability grow advertising revenue will become increasingly dependent our ability generate revenue from ads displayed mobile devices. addition, marketers may view some our products experimental and unproven. Marketers will not continue business with , they will reduce the prices they are willing pay advertise with the budgets they are willing commit , not deliver ads effective manner, they not believe that their investment advertising with will generate competitive return relative other alternatives. Our advertising revenue could adversely affected number other factors, including: • decreases user engagement, including time spent Facebook; • our ability continue increase user access and engagement with Facebook through our mobile products; • product changes inventory management decisions may make that reduce the size, frequency, relative prominence ads displayed Facebook; • our inability maintain increase marketer demand, the pricing our ads, both; • differences between the pricing our ads displayed personal computers and mobile devices; • our inability maintain increase the quality ads shown users, particularly mobile devices; • the accuracy our analytics and measurement solutions that demonstrate the value our ads, our ability further improve such tools; • decisions marketers use our free products, such Facebook Pages, instead advertising Facebook; • loss advertising market share our competitors, including such competitors offer lower priced more integrated products; • adverse legal developments relating advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments and developments litigation; • decisions marketers reduce their advertising result adverse media reports other negative publicity involving , content Facebook, developers with Facebook-integrated mobile and web applications, other companies our industry; • our inability create new products that sustain increase the value our ads; • the degree which users opt out social ads; • the degree which users cease reduce the number times they click our ads; • changes the way online advertising priced; • the impact new technologies that could block obscure the display our ads; and • the impact macroeconomic conditions conditions the advertising industry, general. The occurrence any these other factors could result reduction demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices receive for our ads, cause marketers stop advertising with altogether, either which would negatively affect our revenue and financial results. Mobile advertising new and evolving and growth the use Facebook through our mobile products substitute for use personal computers may negatively affect our revenue and financial results. had million mobile monthly active users (MAUs) December . While most our mobile users also access Facebook through personal computers, anticipate that the rate growth mobile usage will continue the primary driver our growth for the foreseeable future and that usage through personal computers will decline worldwide, including key markets such the United States and other developed markets Europe and Asia. For example, during the fourth quarter , the number mobile MAUs exceeded the number MAUs using personal computers for the first time, and the number MAUs personal computers declined relative the third quarter . While our mobile advertising revenue continues grow and comprised over half our overall advertising revenue the fourth quarter , the mobile advertising market remains new and evolving market. addition, not currently offer our Payments infrastructure applications mobile devices. users increasingly access Facebook mobile products substitute for access through personal computers, and are unable continue grow mobile revenues successfully monetize mobile users, incur excessive expenses these efforts, our financial performance and ability grow revenue would negatively affected. Facebook user growth, engagement, and monetization mobile devices depend upon effective operation with mobile operating systems, networks, and standards that not control. There guarantee that popular mobile devices will continue feature Facebook, that mobile device users will continue use Facebook rather than competing products. are dependent the interoperability Facebook with popular mobile operating systems that not control, such Android and iOS, and any changes such systems and terms service that degrade our products\' functionality, give preferential treatment competitive products, prevent our ability show ads could adversely affect Facebook usage and monetization mobile devices. Additionally, order deliver high quality mobile products, important that our products work well with range mobile technologies, systems, networks, and standards that not control. may not successful developing relationships with key participants the mobile industry developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks, standards. the event that more difficult for our users access and use Facebook their mobile devices, our users choose not access use Facebook their mobile devices use mobile products that not offer access Facebook, our user growth and user engagement could harmed. Our business highly competitive. Competition presents ongoing threat the success our business. face significant competition every aspect our business, including from companies that provide tools facilitate the sharing information, companies that enable marketers display advertising and companies that provide development platforms for applications developers. compete with companies that offer full-featured products that replicate the range communications and related capabilities provide. These offerings include, for example, Google+, which Google has integrated with certain its products, including search and Android, well other, largely regional, social networks that have strong positions particular countries. also compete with companies that develop applications, particularly mobile applications, that provide social functionality, such messaging, photo- and video-sharing, and micro-blogging, and companies that provide web- and mobile-based information and entertainment products and services that are designed engage users and capture time spent online and mobile devices. addition, face competition from traditional and online businesses that provide media for marketers reach their audiences and develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. Some our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater resources better competitive positions certain product segments, geographic regions user demographics than . These factors may allow our competitors respond more effectively than new emerging technologies and changes market conditions. believe that some our users, particularly our younger users, are aware and actively engaging with other products and services similar , substitute for, Facebook, and believe that some our users have reduced their engagement with Facebook favor increased engagement with these other products and services. For example, the third quarter , the best data available suggested that while usage . teens overall was stable, DAUs among younger teens the United States had declined. the event that our users increasingly engage with other products and services, may experience decline user engagement key user demographics more broadly and our business could harmed. Our competitors may develop products, features, services that are similar ours that achieve greater acceptance, may undertake more far-reaching and successful product development efforts marketing campaigns, may adopt more aggressive pricing policies. addition, developers whose mobile and web applications are integrated with Facebook may use information shared our users through Facebook order develop products features that compete with . Certain competitors, including Google, could use strong dominant positions one more markets gain competitive advantage against areas where operate, including: integrating competing social networking platforms features into products they control such search engines, web browsers, mobile device operating systems; making acquisitions; limiting denying our access advertising measurement delivery systems; making access Facebook more difficult. result, our competitors may acquire and engage users the expense the growth engagement our user base, which may negatively affect our business and financial results. believe that our ability compete effectively depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: • the popularity, usefulness, ease use, performance, and reliability our products compared our competitors\' products, particularly with respect mobile products; • the size and composition our user base; • the engagement our users with our products; • the timing and market acceptance products, including developments and enhancements our our competitors\' products; • our ability monetize our products; • the frequency, size, quality, and relative prominence the ads displayed our competitors; • customer service and support efforts; • marketing and selling efforts, including our ability provide marketers with compelling return their investments; • our ability establish and maintain developers\' interest building mobile and web applications that integrate with Facebook; • changes mandated legislation, regulatory authorities, litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some which may have disproportionate effect ; • acquisitions consolidation within our industry, which may result more formidable competitors; • our ability attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, particularly software engineers, designers, and product managers; • our ability cost-effectively manage and grow our operations; and • our reputation and brand strength relative those our competitors. are not able compete effectively, our user base and level user engagement may decrease, may become less attractive developers and marketers, and our revenue and results operations may materially and adversely affected. may not successful our efforts grow usage and engagement with mobile and web applications that integrate with Facebook. have made and are continuing make investments enable developers build mobile and web applications that integrate with Facebook. Such existing and prospective developers may not successful building mobile and web applications that create and maintain user engagement. Additionally, developers may choose build other platforms, including mobile platforms controlled third parties, rather than building products that integrate with Facebook. are continuously seeking balance the distribution objectives our developers with our desire provide optimal user experience, and may not successful achieving balance that continues attract and retain such developers. For example, from time time, have taken actions reduce the volume communications from these developers users Facebook with the objective enhancing the user experience, and such actions have reduced distribution from, user engagement with, and our monetization opportunities from, Facebook-integrated mobile and web applications. some instances, these actions, well other actions enforce our policies applicable developers, have adversely affected our relationships with such developers. are not successful our efforts grow the number developers that choose build products that integrate with Facebook are unable build and maintain good relations with such developers, our user growth and user engagement and our financial results may adversely affected. may not successful our efforts further monetize how developers use Facebook. currently generate revenue from developers that use Facebook several ways, including ads pages generated developers\' applications the Facebook website, direct advertising Facebook purchased developers drive traffic their mobile and web applications, and fees from developers\' use our Payments infrastructure sell virtual and digital goods users accessing Facebook via personal computers. Applications built developers social games are currently responsible for substantially all our revenue derived from Payments, and the majority the revenue from these applications has historically been generated limited number the most popular games. addition, relatively small percentage our users have transacted with Facebook Payments. the Facebook-integrated applications that currently generate revenue fail grow maintain their users and engagement, developers not continue introduce new applications that attract users and create engagement Facebook, developers reduce their advertising Facebook, fail maintain good relationships with existing developers attract new developers who build products that integrate with Facebook, Facebook-integrated applications outside social games not gain popularity and generate significant revenue for , our financial performance and ability grow revenue could adversely affected. Additionally, are actively supporting developers\' efforts develop their own mobile and web applications that integrate with Facebook. Unlike applications that run within the Facebook website which enable show ads and offer Payments, generally not directly monetize from developers\' integrating their own mobile and web applications with Facebook. Therefore, our developers\' efforts prioritize their own mobile web applications may reduce slow the growth our user activity that generates advertising and Payments opportunities, which could negatively affect our revenue. Although believe that there are significant long-term benefits Facebook resulting from increased engagement Facebook-integrated mobile and web applications, these benefits may not offset the possible loss revenue, which case our business could harmed. Action governments restrict access Facebook their countries could substantially harm our business and financial results. possible that governments one more countries may seek censor content available Facebook their country, restrict access Facebook from their country entirely, impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility Facebook their country for extended period time indefinitely. For example, access Facebook has been currently restricted whole part China, Iran, and North Korea. addition, governments other countries may seek restrict access Facebook they consider violation their laws. the event that access Facebook restricted, whole part, one more countries our competitors are able successfully penetrate geographic markets that cannot access, our ability retain increase our user base and user engagement may adversely affected, may not able maintain grow our revenue anticipated, and our financial results could adversely affected. Our new products and changes existing products could fail attract retain users generate revenue. Our ability retain, increase, and engage our user base and increase our revenue depends heavily our ability create successful new products, both independently and conjunction with developers other third parties. may introduce significant changes our existing products develop and introduce new and unproven products, including using technologies with which have little prior development operating experience. new enhanced products fail engage users, developers, marketers, may fail attract retain users generate sufficient revenue, operating margin, other value justify our investments, and our business may adversely affected. the future, may invest new products and initiatives generate revenue, but there guarantee these approaches will successful. For example, recently began showing ads Instagram the United States and cannot assure you that these ads will generate meaningful revenue for our business. are not successful with new products new approaches monetization, may not able maintain grow our revenue anticipated recover any associated development costs, and our financial results could adversely affected. prioritize user growth and engagement and the user experience over short-term financial results. frequently make product decisions that may reduce our short-term revenue profitability believe that the decisions are consistent with our mission and benefit the aggregate user experience and will thereby improve our financial performance over the long term. For example, from time time may change the size, frequency, relative prominence ads order improve quality and overall user experience. Similarly, from time time update our News Feed ranking algorithm deliver the most relevant content our users, which may adversely affect the distribution content developers and marketers and could reduce their incentive invest their development and marketing efforts Facebook. also may introduce changes existing products, introduce new stand-alone products, that direct users away from properties where have proven means monetization. For example, have taken action redirect users who send messages from within the Facebook application our stand-alone Messenger application, although currently not monetize the stand-alone Messenger application. addition, plan focus growing the user base for Instagram and potentially other stand-alone applications that may have limited monetization, and possible that these efforts may reduce engagement with the core Facebook application. These decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that expect, which case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with developers and marketers, and our business and results operations could harmed. are not able maintain and enhance our brand, events occur that damage our reputation and brand, our ability expand our base users, developers, and marketers may impaired, and our business and financial results may harmed. believe that the Facebook brand has significantly contributed the success our business. also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand critical expanding our base users, developers, and marketers. Many our new users are referred existing users. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely our ability continue provide useful, reliable, trustworthy, and innovative products, which may not successfully. may introduce new products terms service that users not like, which may negatively affect our brand. Additionally, the actions our developers may affect our brand users not have positive experience using third-party mobile and web applications integrated with Facebook. have the past experienced, and expect that the future will continue experience, media, legislative, regulatory scrutiny our decisions regarding user privacy other issues, which may adversely affect our reputation and brand. also may fail provide adequate customer service, which could erode confidence our brand. Our brand may also negatively affected the actions users that are deemed hostile inappropriate other users, users acting under false inauthentic identities, perceived actual efforts governments obtain access user information for security-related purposes. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require make substantial investments and these investments may not successful. fail successfully promote and maintain the Facebook brand incur excessive expenses this effort, our business and financial results may adversely affected. Improper access disclosure user information, violation our terms service policies, could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our Data Use Policy governs the collection and use information receive connection with our services. Our efforts protect the information receive may unsuccessful due the actions third parties, software bugs other technical malfunctions, employee error malfeasance, government surveillance, other factors. addition, third parties may attempt fraudulently induce employees users disclose information order gain access our data our users\' data. any these events occur, our users\' information could accessed disclosed improperly. Some our developers other partners, such those that help measure the effectiveness ads, may receive store information provided our users through mobile web applications integrated with Facebook. these third parties developers fail adopt adhere adequate data security practices fail comply with our terms and policies, the event breach their networks, our users\' data may improperly accessed, used, disclosed. Any incidents involving unauthorized access improper use user information incidents involving violation our terms service policies, including our Data Use Policy, could damage our reputation and our brand and diminish our competitive position. addition, the affected users government authorities could initiate legal regulatory actions against connection with such incidents, which could cause incur significant expense and liability result orders consent decrees forcing modify our business practices. Any these events could have material and adverse effect our business, reputation, financial results. Unfavorable media coverage could negatively affect our business. receive high degree media coverage around the world. Unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, our privacy practices, product changes, product quality, litigation regulatory activity, government surveillance, the actions our developers whose products are integrated with Facebook, the actions our users, the actions other companies that provide similar services , could adversely affect our reputation. Such negative publicity also could have adverse effect the size, engagement, and loyalty our user base and result decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our financial results will fluctuate from quarter quarter and are difficult predict. Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated the past and will fluctuate the future. Additionally, have limited operating history with the current scale our business, which makes difficult forecast our future results. result, you should not rely upon our past quarterly financial results indicators future performance. You should take into account the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered companies rapidly evolving markets. Our financial results any given quarter can influenced numerous factors, many which are unable predict are outside our control, including: • our ability maintain and grow our user base and user engagement; • our ability attract and retain marketers particular period; • fluctuations spending our marketers due seasonality, such historically strong spending the fourth quarter each year, other factors; • the number and quality ads shown users; • the pricing our ads and other products; • our ability continue scale monetization through our mobile products; • our ability maintain increase Payments and other fees revenue; • the diversification and growth revenue sources beyond advertising and Payments; • the development and introduction new products services our competitors; • increases marketing, sales, and other operating expenses that may incur grow and expand our operations and remain competitive; • our ability maintain gross margins and operating margins; • costs related the acquisitions businesses, talent, technologies intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs; • our ability obtain equipment and components for our data centers and other technical infrastructure timely and cost-effective manner; • system failures, which could prevent from serving ads for any period time, breaches security privacy, and the costs associated with remediating any such failures breaches; • inaccessibility Facebook due third-party actions; • share-based compensation expense; • adverse litigation judgments, settlements, other litigation-related costs; • changes the legislative regulatory environment, including with respect privacy, enforcement government regulators, including fines, orders, consent decrees; • the overall tax rate for our business, which may affected the financial results our international subsidiaries; • fluctuations currency exchange rates and changes the proportion our revenue and expenses denominated foreign currencies; • fluctuations the market values our portfolio investments and interest rates; • changes . generally accepted accounting principles; and • changes global business macroeconomic conditions. expect our rates growth may decline the future. believe that our rates user and revenue growth may decline over time. While have recently experienced increased revenue growth compared prior periods, expect that our user growth and revenue growth rates will decline over time the size our active user base increases and achieve greater market penetration. For example, our MAUs grew % from December , , % from December , and % from . Historically, our user growth has been primary driver growth our revenue. our growth rates decline, investors\' perceptions our business may adversely affected and the trading price our Class common stock could decline. Our costs are continuing grow, which could harm our business and profitability. Operating our business costly and expect our expenses continue increase the future broaden our user base, users increase the number connections and amount data they share with , and develop and implement new products. Historically, our costs have increased each year due these factors and expect continue incur increasing costs, particular for servers, storage, power, and data centers, support our anticipated future growth. expect continue invest these and other efforts operate and expand our business around the world, including countries and projects where may not have clear path monetization, such our commitment the Internet org initiative increase global Internet access. addition, our costs may increase hire additional employees, particularly result the significant competition that face attract and retain technical talent. Our expenses may grow faster than our revenue and may greater than anticipate particular period over time, and our investments may not successful. addition, may increase marketing, sales, and other operating expenses order grow and expand our operations and remain competitive. Increases our costs may adversely affect our business and profitability. Our business subject complex and evolving . and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and other matters. Many these laws and regulations are subject change and uncertain interpretation, and could result claims, changes our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost operations, declines user growth engagement, otherwise harm our business. are subject variety laws and regulations the United States and abroad that involve matters central our business, including user privacy, rights publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, advertising, marketing, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection minors, consumer protection, taxation, securities law compliance, and online payment services. The introduction new products expansion our activities certain jurisdictions may subject additional laws and regulations. addition, foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations can more restrictive than those the United States. These . federal and state and foreign laws and regulations, which can enforced private parties government entities, are constantly evolving and can subject significant change. addition, the application and interpretation these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly the new and rapidly evolving industry which operate, and may interpreted and applied inconsistently from country country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. For example, the interpretation some laws and regulations that govern the use names and likenesses connection with advertising and marketing activities unsettled and developments this area could affect the manner which design our products, well our terms use. number proposals are pending before federal, state, and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that could significantly affect our business. For example, the European Commission currently considering data protection regulation that may include operational requirements for companies that receive personal data that are different than those currently place the European Union, and that may also include significant penalties for non-compliance. Similarly, there have been number recent legislative proposals the United States, both the federal and state level, that would impose new obligations areas such privacy and liability for copyright infringement third parties. addition, some countries are considering legislation requiring local storage and processing data that, enacted, could increase the cost and complexity delivering our services. These existing and proposed laws and regulations can costly comply with and can delay impede the development new products, result negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject inquiries investigations, claims other remedies, including fines demands that modify cease existing business practices. have been subject regulatory investigations and settlements and expect continue subject such proceedings the future, which could cause incur substantial costs require change our business practices manner materially adverse our business. From time time, receive formal and informal inquiries from regulators regarding our compliance with laws and other matters. the Federal Trade Commission approved settlement agreement with that, among other things, requires complete -annual independent privacy assessments and establish and refine certain practices with respect treatment user information and the privacy settings offer. and , the Irish Data Protection Commissioner audited the data, security, and privacy practices and policies Facebook Ireland. expect continue the subject regulatory investigations and audits the future these and other regulators throughout the world. Violation existing future regulatory orders consent decrees could subject substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results operations. addition, possible that future orders issued , inquiries enforcement actions initiated , regulatory authorities could cause incur substantial costs require change our business practices manner materially adverse our business. are unable protect our intellectual property, the value our brand and other intangible assets may diminished, and our business may adversely affected. rely and expect continue rely combination confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants, and third parties with whom have relationships, well trademark, copyright, patent, trade secret, and domain name protection laws, protect our proprietary rights. the United States and internationally, have filed various applications for protection certain aspects our intellectual property, and currently hold number issued patents multiple jurisdictions and have acquired patents and patent applications from third parties. addition, the future may acquire additional patents patent portfolios, which could require significant cash expenditures. Third parties may knowingly unknowingly infringe our proprietary rights, third parties may challenge proprietary rights held , and pending and future trademark and patent applications may not approved. addition, effective intellectual property protection may not available every country which operate intend operate our business. any all these cases, may required expend significant time and expense order prevent infringement enforce our rights. Although have taken measures protect our proprietary rights, there can assurance that others will not offer products concepts that are substantially similar ours and compete with our business. addition, regularly contribute software source code under open source licenses and have made other technology developed available under other open licenses, and include open source software our products. For example, have contributed certain specifications and designs related our data center equipment the Open Compute Project Foundation, non-profit entity that shares and develops such information with the technology community, under the Open Web Foundation License. result our open source contributions and the use open source our products, may license required license disclose code and innovations that turn out material our business and may also exposed increased litigation risk. the protection our proprietary rights inadequate prevent unauthorized use appropriation third parties, the value our brand and other intangible assets may diminished and competitors may able more effectively mimic our service and methods operations. Any these events could have adverse effect our business and financial results. are currently, and expect the future, party patent lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming, and, resolved adversely, could have significant impact our business, financial condition, results operations. Companies the Internet, technology, and media industries own large numbers patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets, and frequently enter into litigation based allegations infringement, misappropriation, other violations intellectual property other rights. addition, various "non-practicing entities" that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt aggressively assert their rights order extract value from technology companies. Furthermore, from time time may introduce new products, including areas where currently not compete, which could increase our exposure patent and other intellectual property claims from competitors and non-practicing entities. From time time, receive notice letters from patent holders alleging that certain our products and services infringe their patent rights. presently are involved number intellectual property lawsuits, and face increasing competition and gain increasingly high profile, expect the number patent and other intellectual property claims against grow. Defending patent and other intellectual property litigation costly and can impose significant burden management and employees, and there can assurances that favorable final outcomes will obtained all cases. addition, plaintiffs may seek, and may become subject , preliminary provisional rulings the course any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring cease some all our operations. may decide settle such lawsuits and disputes terms that are unfavorable . Similarly, any litigation which are party resolved adversely, may subject unfavorable judgment that may not reversed upon appeal. The terms such settlement judgment may require cease some all our operations pay substantial amounts the other party. addition, may have seek license continue practices found violation third party\' rights, which may not available reasonable terms, all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. result, may also required develop alternative non-infringing technology practices discontinue the practices. The development alternative non-infringing technology practices could require significant effort and expense may not feasible. Our business, financial condition, and results operations could adversely affected result unfavorable resolution the disputes and litigation referred above. are involved numerous class action lawsuits and other litigation matters that are expensive and time consuming, and, resolved adversely, could harm our business, financial condition, results operations. addition intellectual property claims, are also involved numerous other lawsuits, including putative class action lawsuits brought users and marketers, many which claim statutory damages seek significant changes our business operations, and anticipate that will continue target for numerous lawsuits the future. Because have over billion users, the plaintiffs class action cases filed against typically claim enormous monetary damages even the alleged per-user harm small non-existent. Any negative outcome from such lawsuits could result payments substantial monetary damages fines, undesirable changes our products business practices, and accordingly our business, financial condition, results operations could materially and adversely affected. Although the results such lawsuits and claims cannot predicted with certainty, not believe that the final outcome those matters relating our products that currently face will have material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results operations. addition, are currently the subject stockholder class action suits connection with our IPO. believe these lawsuits are without merit and are vigorously defending these lawsuits. There can assurances that favorable final outcome will obtained all our cases, and defending any lawsuit costly and can impose significant burden management and employees. Any litigation which are party may result onerous unfavorable judgment that may not reversed upon appeal payments substantial monetary damages fines, may decide settle lawsuits similarly unfavorable terms, which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results operations. Our CEO has control over key decision making result his control majority our voting stock. Mark Zuckerberg, our founder, Chairman, and CEO, able exercise voting rights with respect majority the voting power our outstanding capital stock and therefore has the ability control the outcome matters submitted our stockholders for approval, including the election directors and any merger, consolidation, sale all substantially all our assets. This concentrated control could delay, defer, prevent change control, merger, consolidation, sale all substantially all our assets that our other stockholders support, conversely this concentrated control could result the consummation such transaction that our other stockholders not support. This concentrated control could also discourage potential investor from acquiring our Class common stock due the limited voting power such stock relative the Class common stock and might harm the trading price our Class common stock. addition, . Zuckerberg has the ability control the management and major strategic investments our company result his position our CEO and his ability control the election replacement our directors. the event his death, the shares our capital stock that . Zuckerberg owns will transferred the persons entities that designates. board member and officer, . Zuckerberg owes fiduciary duty our stockholders and must act good faith manner reasonably believes the best interests our stockholders. stockholder, even controlling stockholder, . Zuckerberg entitled vote his shares, and shares over which has voting control result voting agreements, his own interests, which may not always the interests our stockholders generally. plan continue make acquisitions, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, result dilution our stockholders, and adversely affect our financial results. part our business strategy, have made and intend make acquisitions add specialized employees, complementary companies, products, technologies. Our ability acquire and integrate larger more complex companies, products, technologies successful manner unproven . the future, may not able find other suitable acquisition candidates, and may not able complete acquisitions favorable terms, all. Any future acquisitions complete could viewed negatively users, developers, marketers, investors, and our acquisitions may not achieve our goals. For example, August , acquired Instagram and since the acquisition, have been focused user growth and the users\' experience. just recently began showing ads Instagram the United States and cannot assure you that these ads will generate meaningful revenue for our business. addition, fail successfully close integrate any acquisitions, integrate the products technologies associated with such acquisitions into our company, identify and address liabilities associated with the acquired business assets, our business, revenue, and operating results could adversely affected. Any integration process may require significant time and resources, and may not able manage the process successfully. may not successfully evaluate utilize the acquired products, technology, personnel, accurately forecast the financial impact acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. addition, our ability conduct due diligence with respect acquisitions, and our ability evaluate the results such due diligence, dependent upon the accuracy and completeness statements and disclosures made actions taken the companies acquire their representatives. Despite our efforts, there could significant liabilities deficiencies associated with the business, assets, products, financial condition accounting practices related the assets companies acquire. addition, may have pay cash incur debt pay for acquisitions, which could adversely affect our financial results and liquidity. Additionally, may issue equity securities pay for acquisitions retain the employees the acquired company, which could increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial results and result dilution our stockholders. The incurrence indebtedness would result increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants other restrictions that would impede our ability manage our operations. Our business dependent our ability maintain and scale our technical infrastructure, and any significant disruption our service could damage our reputation, result potential loss users and engagement, and adversely affect our financial results. Our reputation and ability attract, retain, and serve our users dependent upon the reliable performance our products and our underlying technical infrastructure. Our systems may not adequately designed with the necessary reliability and redundancy avoid performance delays outages that could harmful our business. Facebook unavailable when users attempt access , does not load quickly they expect, users may not use our products often the future, all. our user base and the amount and types information shared Facebook continue grow, will need increasing amount technical infrastructure, including network capacity, and computing power, continue satisfy the needs our users. possible that may fail effectively scale and grow our technical infrastructure accommodate these increased demands. addition, our business may subject interruptions, delays, failures resulting from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, power loss, terrorism, other catastrophic events. substantial portion our network infrastructure provided third parties. Any disruption failure the services receive from these providers could harm our ability handle existing increased traffic and could significantly harm our business. Any financial other difficulties these providers face may adversely affect our business, and exercise little control over these providers, which increases our vulnerability problems with the services they provide. could experience unforeseen difficulties building and operating key portions our technical infrastructure. have designed and built our own data centers and key portions our technical infrastructure through which serve our products, and plan continue significantly expand the size our infrastructure primarily through data centers and other projects. The infrastructure expansion are undertaking complex, and unanticipated delays the completion these projects availability components may lead increased project costs, operational inefficiencies, interruptions the delivery degradation the quality our products. addition, there may issues related this infrastructure that are not identified during the testing phases design and implementation, which may only become evident after have started fully utilize the underlying equipment, that could further degrade the user experience increase our costs. Our products and internal systems rely software that highly technical, and contains undetected errors, our business could adversely affected. Our products and internal systems rely software that highly technical and complex. addition, our products and internal systems depend the ability our software store, retrieve, process, and manage immense amounts data. Our software has contained, and may now the future contain, undetected errors, bugs, vulnerabilities. Some errors our software may only discovered after the code has been released for external internal use. Errors other design defects within our software may result negative experience for users and marketers who use our products, delay product introductions enhancements, result measurement billing errors. Any errors, bugs, defects discovered our software could result damage our reputation, loss users, loss revenue, liability for damages, any which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Certain our user metrics are subject inherent challenges measurement, and real perceived inaccuracies such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. The numbers for our key metrics, which include our DAUs, mobile DAUs, MAUs, mobile MAUs, and average revenue per user (ARPU), well certain other metrics such mobile-only DAUs and mobile-only MAUs, are calculated using internal company data based the activity user accounts. While these numbers are based what believe reasonable estimates our user base for the applicable period measurement, there are inherent challenges measuring usage our products across large online and mobile populations around the world. For example, there may individuals who maintain one more Facebook accounts violation our terms service. estimate, for example, that "duplicate" accounts ( account that user maintains addition his her principal account) may have represented between approximately % and % our worldwide MAUs . also seek identify "false" accounts, which divide into two categories: ( ) user-misclassified accounts, where users have created personal profiles for business, organization, non-human entity such pet (such entities are permitted Facebook using Page rather than personal profile under our terms service); and ( ) undesirable accounts, which represent user profiles that determine are intended used for purposes that violate our terms service, such spamming. , for example, estimate user-misclassified accounts may have represented between approximately % and % our worldwide MAUs and undesirable accounts may have represented between approximately % and % our worldwide MAUs. believe the percentage accounts that are duplicate false meaningfully lower developed markets such the United States United Kingdom and higher developing markets such India and Turkey. However, these estimates are based internal review limited sample accounts and apply significant judgment making this determination, such identifying names that appear fake other behavior that appears inauthentic the reviewers. such, our estimation duplicate false accounts may not accurately represent the actual number such accounts. are continually seeking improve our ability identify duplicate false accounts and estimate the total number such accounts, and such estimates may change due improvements changes our methodology. Due inherent variability such estimates particular dates measurement, disclose these estimates range over recent period. Our data limitations may affect our understanding certain details our business. For example, while user-provided data indicates decline usage among younger users, this age data unreliable because disproportionate number our younger users register with inaccurate age. the third quarter , worked with third parties develop models analyze user data age the United States. These models suggested that usage . teens overall was stable, but that DAUs among younger . teens had declined. The data and models are using are not precise and our understanding usage age group may not complete. Some our historical metrics through the second quarter have also been affected applications certain mobile devices that automatically contact our servers for regular updates with user action involved, and this activity can cause our system count the user associated with such device active user the day such contact occurs. For example, estimate that less than % our estimated worldwide DAUs December , and resulted from this type automatic mobile activity, and that this type activity had substantially smaller effect our estimate worldwide MAUs and mobile MAUs. The impact this automatic activity our metrics varied geography because mobile usage varies different regions the world. addition, our data regarding the geographic location our users estimated based number factors, such the user\' address and self-disclosed location. These factors may not always accurately reflect the user\' actual location. For example, mobile-only user may appear accessing Facebook from the location the proxy server that the user connects rather than from the user\' actual location. The methodologies used measure user metrics may also susceptible algorithm other technical errors. For example, early June , discovered error the algorithm use estimate the geographic location our users that affected our attribution certain user locations for the period ended March , . While this issue did not affect our overall worldwide DAU and MAU numbers, did affect our attribution users across different geographic regions. estimate that the number MAUs March , for the United States & Canada region was overstated result the error approximately % and this overstatement was offset understatements other regions. The number such users for the period ended March , disclosed "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations -- Trends Our User Metrics" reflect the reclassification more correctly attribute users geographic region. Our estimates for revenue user location and revenue user device are also affected these factors. regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating these metrics improve their accuracy. addition, our DAU and MAU estimates will differ from estimates published third parties due differences methodology. For example, some third parties are not able accurately measure mobile users not count mobile users for certain user groups all their analyses. marketers, developers, investors not perceive our user metrics accurate representations our user base, discover material inaccuracies our user metrics, our reputation may harmed and marketers and developers may less willing allocate their budgets resources Facebook, which could negatively affect our business and financial results. cannot assure you that will effectively manage our growth. Our employee headcount and the scope and complexity our business have increased significantly, with the number employees increasing , December , from , December , , and expect headcount growth continue for the foreseeable future. The growth and expansion our business and products create significant challenges for our management, operational, and financial resources, including managing multiple relations with users, marketers, developers, and other third parties. the event continued growth our operations the number our third-party relationships, our information technology systems our internal controls and procedures may not adequate support our operations. addition, some members our management not have significant experience managing large global business operation, our management may not able manage such growth effectively. effectively manage our growth, must continue improve our operational, financial, and management processes and systems and effectively expand, train, and manage our employee base. our organization continues grow, and are required implement more complex organizational management structures, may find increasingly difficult maintain the benefits our corporate culture, including our ability quickly develop and launch new and innovative products. This could negatively affect our business performance. The loss one more our key personnel, our failure attract and retain other highly qualified personnel the future, could harm our business. currently depend the continued services and performance our key personnel, including Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl . Sandberg. Although have entered into employment agreements with . Zuckerberg and . Sandberg, the agreements have specific duration and constitute -will employment. addition, many our key technologies and systems are custom-made for our business our personnel. The loss key personnel, including members management well key engineering, product development, marketing, and sales personnel, could disrupt our operations and have adverse effect our business. continue grow, cannot guarantee will continue attract the personnel need maintain our competitive position. particular, intend continue hire significant number technical personnel and the foreseeable future, and expect face significant competition from other companies hiring such personnel, particularly the San Francisco Bay Area. mature, the incentives attract, retain, and motivate employees provided our equity awards future arrangements may not effective the past, and issue significant equity attract additional employees, the ownership our existing stockholders may further diluted. Additionally, have number current employees whose equity ownership our company has provided them substantial amount personal wealth, which could affect their decisions about whether not continue work for . result these factors, may difficult for continue retain and motivate our employees. not succeed attracting, hiring, and integrating excellent personnel, retaining and motivating existing personnel, may unable grow effectively. may incur liability result information retrieved from transmitted over the Internet posted Facebook and claims related our products. have faced, currently face, and will continue face claims relating information that published made available Facebook. particular, the nature our business exposes claims related defamation, intellectual property rights, rights publicity and privacy, and personal injury torts. This risk enhanced certain jurisdictions outside the United States where our protection from liability for third-party actions may unclear and where may less protected under local laws than are the United States. could incur significant costs investigating and defending such claims and, are found liable, significant damages. any these events occur, our business and financial results could adversely affected. Computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, and spamming could harm our business and results operations. Computer malware, viruses, and computer hacking and phishing attacks have become more prevalent our industry, have occurred our systems the past, and may occur our systems the future. Because our prominence, believe that are particularly attractive target for such attacks. Though difficult determine what, any, harm may directly result from any specific interruption attack, any failure maintain performance, reliability, security, and availability our products and technical infrastructure. Any such failure may harm our reputation, our ability retain existing users and attract new users, and our results operations. addition, spammers attempt use our products send targeted and untargeted spam messages users, which may embarrass annoy users and make Facebook less user-friendly. cannot certain that the technologies and employees that have attempt defeat spamming attacks will able curb spam messages from being sent our platform. result spamming activities, our users may use Facebook less stop using our products altogether. Payment transactions Facebook may subject additional regulatory requirements and other risks that could costly and difficult comply with that could harm our business. Our users can use Facebook purchase virtual and digital goods from developers that offer applications the Facebook website using our Payments infrastructure. are subject variety laws and regulations the United States, Europe, and elsewhere, including those governing anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing, money transmission, gift cards and other prepaid access instruments, and import and export restrictions. Depending how our Payments product evolves, may also subject other laws and regulations including those governing electronic funds transfers, gambling, banking, and lending. some jurisdictions, the application interpretation these laws and regulations not clear. increase flexibility how our use Payments may evolve and mitigate regulatory uncertainty, have received certain money transmitter licenses the United States and expect apply for certain regulatory licenses Europe, which will generally require demonstrate compliance with many domestic and foreign laws these areas. Our efforts comply with these laws and regulations could costly and result diversion management time and effort and may still not guarantee compliance. the event that are found violation any such legal regulatory requirements, may subject monetary fines other penalties such cease and desist order, may required make product changes, any which could have adverse effect our business and financial results. addition, may subject variety additional risks result Payments Facebook, including: • increased costs and diversion management time and effort and other resources deal with bad transactions customer disputes; • potential fraudulent otherwise illegal activity users, developers, employees, third parties; • restrictions the investment consumer funds used transact Payments; and • additional disclosure and reporting requirements. plan continue expanding our operations abroad where have limited operating experience and may subject increased business and economic risks that could affect our financial results. plan continue the international expansion our business operations and the translation our products. currently make Facebook available more than different languages, and have offices data centers more than different countries. may enter new international markets where have limited experience marketing, selling, and deploying our products. For example, continue evaluate making Facebook generally available China. However, this market has substantial legal and regulatory complexities that have prevented this date. fail deploy manage our operations international markets successfully, our business may suffer. addition, are subject variety risks inherent doing business internationally, including: • political, social, economic instability; • risks related the legal and regulatory environment foreign jurisdictions, including with respect privacy and tax and terrestrial infrastructure matters, and unexpected changes laws, regulatory requirements, and enforcement; • potential damage our brand and reputation due compliance with local laws, including potential censorship requirements provide user information local authorities; • fluctuations currency exchange rates; • higher levels credit risk and payment fraud; • enhanced difficulties integrating any foreign acquisitions; • burdens complying with variety foreign laws; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights some countries; • difficulties staffing and managing global operations and the increased travel, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • compliance with the . Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the . Bribery Act, and similar laws other jurisdictions; and • compliance with statutory equity requirements and management tax consequences. are unable expand internationally and manage the complexity our global operations successfully, our financial results could adversely affected. may incur substantial amount indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition. August , entered into five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility under which may borrow $ billion fund working capital and general corporate purposes. December , , amounts were outstanding under this facility. draw down this facility the future, our interest expense and principal repayment requirements will increase significantly, which could have adverse effect our financial results. may require additional capital support our business growth, and this capital may not available acceptable terms, all. may require additional capital support our business growth respond business opportunities, challenges unforeseen circumstances. Our ability obtain additional capital, and when required, will depend our business plans, investor demand, our operating performance, the condition the capital markets, and other factors. raise additional funds through the issuance equity, equity-linked debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences, privileges senior the rights our Class common stock, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution. are unable obtain additional capital, are unable obtain additional capital satisfactory terms, our ability continue support our business growth respond business opportunities, challenges, unforeseen circumstances could adversely affected, and our business may harmed. default our leasing and credit obligations, our operations may interrupted and our business and financial results could adversely affected. finance significant portion our expenditures through leasing arrangements, some which are not required reflected our balance sheet, and may enter into additional similar arrangements the future. particular, have used these types arrangements finance some our equipment and data centers. addition, have $ billion revolving credit facility that may draw upon finance our operations other corporate purposes. default these leasing and credit obligations, our leasing partners and lenders may, among other things: • require repayment any outstanding lease obligations amounts drawn our credit facility; • terminate our leasing arrangements and credit facilities; • terminate our access the leased data centers utilize; • stop delivery ordered equipment; • sell require return our leased equipment; • require pay significant damages. some all these events were occur, our operations may interrupted and our ability fund our operations obligations, well our business, financial results, and financial condition, could adversely affected. may have exposure greater than anticipated tax liabilities. Our income tax obligations are based part our corporate operating structure and intercompany arrangements, including the manner which develop, value, and use our intellectual property and the valuations our intercompany transactions. The tax laws applicable our business, including the laws the United States and other jurisdictions, are subject interpretation and certain jurisdictions are aggressively interpreting their laws new ways effort raise additional tax proceeds from companies such Facebook. The taxing authorities the jurisdictions which operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology intercompany arrangements, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results operations. are subject regular review and audit . federal and state and foreign tax authorities. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions have taken and any adverse outcome such review audit could have negative effect our financial position and results operations. addition, the determination our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment management, and there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. Although believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results the period periods for which such determination made. addition, our future income taxes could adversely affected earnings being lower than anticipated jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, changes the valuation our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws, regulations, accounting principles. For example, have previously incurred losses certain international subsidiaries that resulted effective tax rate that significantly higher than the statutory tax rate the United States and this could continue happen the future. Changes tax laws tax rulings could materially affect our financial position and results operations. Changes tax laws tax rulings could materially affect our financial position and results operations. For example, the current . administration and key members Congress have made public statements indicating that tax reform priority. Certain changes . tax laws, including limitations the ability defer . taxation earnings outside the United States until those earnings are repatriated the United States, could affect the tax treatment our foreign earnings. addition, many countries the European Union, well number other countries and organizations such the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are actively considering changes existing tax laws. Certain proposals could include recommendations that would significantly increase our tax obligations many countries where business. Due the large and expanding scale our international business activities, any changes the taxation such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results operations. Risks Related Ownership Our Class Common Stock The trading price our Class common stock has been and will likely continue volatile. The trading price our Class common stock has been, and likely continue , volatile. Since shares our Class common stock were sold our IPO May price $ per share, our stock price has ranged from $ $ through December , . addition the factors discussed this Annual Report Form - , the trading price our Class common stock may fluctuate significantly response numerous factors, many which are beyond our control, including: • actual anticipated fluctuations our revenue and other operating results; • the financial projections may provide the public, any changes these projections our failure meet these projections; • actions securities analysts who initiate maintain coverage , changes financial estimates any securities analysts who follow our company, our failure meet these estimates the expectations investors; • additional shares our Class common stock being sold into the market our existing stockholders, including shares sold our employees cover tax liabilities connection with RSU vesting events, the anticipation such sales; • investor sentiment with respect our competitors, our business partners, and our industry general; • announcements our competitors significant products features, technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments; • announcements estimates third parties actual anticipated changes the size our user base, the level user engagement, the effectiveness our products; • changes operating performance and stock market valuations technology companies our industry, including our developers and competitors; • price and volume fluctuations the overall stock market, including result trends the economy whole; • the inclusion deletion our Class common stock from any trading indices, such the & Index; • media coverage our business and financial performance; • lawsuits threatened filed against ; • developments new legislation and pending lawsuits regulatory actions, including interim final rulings judicial regulatory bodies; and • other events factors, including those resulting from war incidents terrorism, responses these events. addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue affect the market prices equity securities many technology companies. Stock prices many technology companies have fluctuated manner unrelated disproportionate the operating performance those companies. are currently subject securities litigation connection with our IPO. may experience more such litigation following future periods volatility. Any securities litigation could subject substantial costs, divert resources and the attention management from our business, and adversely affect our business. securities industry analysts publish inaccurate unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our Class common stock depends part the research and reports that securities industry analysts publish about our business. one more the analysts who cover downgrade the rating our Class common stock publish inaccurate unfavorable research about our business, our Class common stock price could decline. not intend pay dividends for the foreseeable future. have never declared paid cash dividends our capital stock. currently intend retain any future earnings finance the operation and expansion our business, and not expect declare pay any dividends the foreseeable future. result, you may only receive return your investment our Class common stock the trading price our Class common stock increases. addition, our credit facility contains restrictions our ability pay dividends. are unable maintain effective internal control over financial reporting the future, investors may lose confidence the accuracy and completeness our financial reports and the trading price our Class common stock may negatively affected. are subject Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), which requires maintain internal controls over financial reporting and report any material weaknesses such internal controls. have consumed and will continue consume management resources and incur expenses for SOX compliance ongoing basis. identify material weaknesses our internal control over financial reporting, are unable comply with the requirements Section timely manner assert that our internal control over financial reporting effective, investors may lose confidence the accuracy and completeness our financial reports and the trading price our Class common stock could negatively affected, and could become subject investigations the stock exchange which our securities are listed, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. The requirements being public company may strain our resources and divert management\' attention. also are subject the reporting requirements the Securities Exchange Act , amended, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased and likely will continue increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, costly, and increase demand our systems and resources. result, management\' attention may diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and operating results. addition, complying with public disclosure rules makes our business more visible, which believe may result threatened actual litigation, including competitors and other third parties. such claims are successful, our business and operating results could harmed, and even the claims not result litigation are resolved our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary resolve them, could divert the resources our management and harm our business and operating results. The dual class structure our common stock and the voting agreements among certain stockholders have the effect concentrating voting control with our CEO, and also with certain employees and directors and their affiliates; this will limit preclude your ability influence corporate matters. Our Class common stock has ten votes per share, and our Class common stock has one vote per share. Stockholders who hold shares Class common stock, including certain our executive officers, employees, and directors and their affiliates, together hold substantial majority the voting power our outstanding capital stock. Because the ten- -one voting ratio between our Class and Class common stock, the holders our Class common stock collectively control majority the combined voting power our common stock and therefore are able control all matters submitted our stockholders for approval long the shares Class common stock represent least % all outstanding shares our Class and Class common stock. This concentrated control will limit preclude your ability influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future. Transfers holders Class common stock will generally result those shares converting Class common stock, subject limited exceptions, such certain transfers effected for estate planning charitable purposes. The conversion Class common stock Class common stock will have the effect, over time, increasing the relative voting power those holders Class common stock who retain their shares the long term. , for example, . Zuckerberg retains significant portion his holdings Class common stock for extended period time, could, the future, continue control majority the combined voting power our Class common stock and Class common stock. have elected take advantage the "controlled company" exemption the corporate governance rules for NASDAQ-listed companies, which could make our Class common stock less attractive some investors otherwise harm our stock price. Because qualify "controlled company" under the corporate governance rules for NASDAQ-listed companies, are not required have majority our board directors independent, nor are required have compensation committee independent nominating function. light our status controlled company, our board directors determined not have independent nominating function and chose have the full board directors directly responsible for nominating members our board, and the future could elect not have majority our board directors independent not have compensation committee. Accordingly, should the interests our controlling stockholder differ from those other stockholders, the other stockholders may not have the same protections afforded stockholders companies that are subject all the corporate governance rules for NASDAQ-listed companies. Our status controlled company could make our Class common stock less attractive some investors otherwise harm our stock price. Delaware law and provisions our restated certificate incorporation and bylaws could make merger, tender offer, proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price our Class common stock. Our status Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, prevent change control prohibiting from engaging business combination with interested stockholder for period three years after the person becomes interested stockholder, even change control would beneficial our existing stockholders. addition, our restated certificate incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition our company more difficult, including the following: • until the first date which the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than % the combined voting power our common stock, any transaction that would result change control our company requires the approval majority our outstanding Class common stock voting separate class; • have dual class common stock structure, which provides . Zuckerberg with the ability control the outcome matters requiring stockholder approval, even owns significantly less than majority the shares our outstanding Class and Class common stock; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power common stock, certain amendments our restated certificate incorporation bylaws will require the approval two-thirds the combined vote our then-outstanding shares Class and Class common stock; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power our common stock, vacancies our board directors will able filled only our board directors and not stockholders; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power our common stock, our board directors will classified into three classes directors with staggered three-year terms and directors will only able removed from office for cause; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power our common stock, our stockholders will only able take action meeting stockholders and not written consent; • only our chairman, our chief executive officer, our president, majority our board directors are authorized call special meeting stockholders; • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders nominate candidates for election directors bring matters before annual meeting stockholders; • our restated certificate incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms which may established, and shares which may issued, without stockholder approval; and • certain litigation against can only brought Delaware. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties December , , leased office and data center facilities around the world totaling approximately million square feet, including one million square feet for our corporate headquarters Menlo Park, California. have data centers the United States, including data center facilities that own North Carolina and Oregon and leased data center facilities California and Virginia. also own data center facility Lulea, Sweden. believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs. support planned future growth, are currently making significant investments expand our corporate headquarters Menlo Park, California and constructing new data center Altoona, Iowa. ', 'item 3. ': "Legal Proceedings Paul . Ceglia filed suit against and Mark Zuckerberg about June , , the Supreme Court the State New York for the County Allegheny, claiming substantial ownership our company based purported contract between . Ceglia and . Zuckerberg allegedly entered into April . removed the case the . District Court for the Western District New York, where the case now pending. his first amended complaint, filed April , , . Ceglia revised his claims include alleged partnership with . Zuckerberg, revised his claims for relief seek substantial share . Zuckerberg' ownership , and included quotations from supposed emails that claims have exchanged with . Zuckerberg and . March , , filed motion dismiss . Ceglia' complaint and motion for judgment the pleadings. November , , . Ceglia was indicted mail and wire fraud charges based his prosecution this lawsuit. March , , the magistrate judge overseeing the matter issued report recommending that the court grant our motion dismiss and that deny moot our motion for judgment the pleadings. continue believe that . Ceglia attempting perpetrate fraud the court and intend continue defend the case vigorously. Beginning May , , multiple putative class actions, derivative actions, and individual actions were filed state and federal courts the United States and other jurisdictions against , our directors, and certain our officers alleging violation securities laws breach fiduciary duties connection with our initial public offering (IPO) and seeking unspecified damages. believe these lawsuits are without merit, and intend continue vigorously defend them. October , , our motion, the vast majority the cases the United States, along with multiple cases filed against The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. and The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (collectively referred herein NASDAQ) alleging technical and other trading-related errors NASDAQ connection with our IPO, were ordered centralized for coordinated consolidated pre-trial proceedings the United States District Court for the Southern District New York. February , , the court granted our motion dismiss four derivative actions against our directors and certain our officers with leave amend. October , , the court heard argument our motion dismiss the consolidated securities class action, well our motion dismiss, and the plaintiffs' motion remand state court, certain other derivative actions. December , , the court denied our motion dismiss the consolidated securities class action. December , , the court granted our motion dismiss, and denied the plaintiffs’ motion remand state court, certain other derivative actions. addition, the events surrounding our IPO have become the subject various government inquiries, and are cooperating with those inquiries. Any such inquiries could subject substantial costs, divert resources and the attention management from our business, and adversely affect our business. are also party various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. Among these pending legal matters, one case, Rembrandt Social Media, . Facebook, Inc., . , was scheduled begin trial December the . District Court for the Eastern District Virginia. this case, the plaintiff alleges that infringe certain patents held the plaintiff. The plaintiff seeking significant monetary damages and equitable relief. The trial date was vacated December and the case currently appeal. believe the claims made the plaintiff the Rembrandt case are without merit, and intend continue defend ourselves vigorously. addition, are also currently parties multiple other lawsuits related our products, including other patent infringement lawsuits well class action lawsuits brought users and marketers, and may the future subject additional lawsuits and disputes. are also involved other claims, government investigations, and proceedings arising from the ordinary course our business. ", 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\' Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities. Market Information for Common Stock Our Class common stock has been listed the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol " " since May , . Prior that time, there was public market for our stock. The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low intra-day sales prices per share for our Class common stock the NASDAQ Global Select Market. High Low High Low First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter ( ) $ $ $ $ Third Quarter $ $ $ $ Fourth Quarter $ $ $ $ ( ) The period reported for the second quarter from May , through June , . Our Class common stock not listed nor traded any stock exchange. Holders Record December , , there were , stockholders record our Class common stock, and the closing price our Class common stock was $ per share reported the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Because many our shares Class common stock are held brokers and other institutions behalf stockholders, are unable estimate the total number stockholders represented these record holders. December , , there were stockholders record our Class common stock. Dividend Policy have never declared paid any cash dividend our common stock. intend retain any future earnings and not expect pay dividends the foreseeable future. addition, our credit facility contains restrictions our ability pay dividends. Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Recent Sale Unregistered Securities and Use Proceeds Recent Sale Unregistered Securities None. Use Proceeds May , , our registration statement Form - (File . - ) was declared effective the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for our initial public offering pursuant which sold aggregate , , shares our Class common stock price the public $ per share. There has been material change the planned use proceeds from our initial public offering described our final prospectus filed with the SEC May , pursuant Rule ( ). Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not deemed "soliciting material" "filed" with the SEC for purposes Section the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act), otherwise subject the liabilities under that Section, and shall not deemed incorporated reference into any filing Facebook, Inc. under the Securities Act , amended, the Exchange Act. The following graph shows comparison from May , (the date our Class common stock commenced trading the NASDAQ Global Select Market) through December , the cumulative total return for our Class common stock, the Standard & Poor\' Stock Index ( & Index) and the Nasdaq Composite Index (NASDAQ Composite). The graph assumes that $ was invested the market close May , the Class common stock Facebook, Inc., the & Index and the NASDAQ Composite and data for the & Index and the NASDAQ Composite assumes reinvestments dividends. The stock price performance the following graph not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The information required this item with respect our equity compensation plans incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within days the fiscal year ended December , . ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data. You should read the following selected consolidated financial data conjunction with Part , Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations," and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . The consolidated statements income data for each the years ended December , , , and and the consolidated balance sheets data December , and are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . The consolidated statements income data for the years ended December , and and the consolidated balance sheets data December , , , and are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements that are not included this Annual Report Form - . Our historical results are not necessarily indicative our results any future period. Year Ended December , ( millions, except per share data) Consolidated Statements Income Data: Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ Total costs and expenses ( ) , , , Income from operations , , , Income before provision for income taxes , , , Net income , , Net income attributable Class and Class common stockholders , Earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders ( ) : Basic $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Total costs and expenses include $ million , $ billion , $ million , $ million and $ million share-based compensation for the years ended December , , , , and , respectively. ( ) See Note the notes our consolidated financial statements for description our computation basic and diluted earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders. December , ( millions) Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ Working capital , , , , Property and equipment, net , , , Total assets , , , , , Capital lease obligations Long-term debt — , — — Total liabilities , , , Additional paid- capital , , , Total stockholders\' equity , , , , Free Cash Flow addition other financial measures presented accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), monitor free cash flow (FCF) non-GAAP measure manage our business, make planning decisions, evaluate our performance, and allocate resources. define FCF net cash provided operating activities reduced purchases property and equipment and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. believe that FCF one the key financial indicators our business performance over the long term and provides useful information regarding how cash provided operating activities compares the property and equipment investments required maintain and grow our business. have chosen subtract both purchases property and equipment and property and equipment acquired under capital leases our calculation FCF because believe that these two items collectively represent the amount property and equipment need procure support our business, regardless whether finance such property equipment with capital lease. The market for financing servers and other technical equipment dynamic and expect our use capital leases could vary significantly from year year. have chosen our definition for FCF because believe that this methodology can provide useful supplemental information help investors better understand underlying trends our business. use FCF discussions with our senior management and board directors. FCF has limitations analytical tool, and you should not consider isolation substitute for analysis other GAAP financial measures, such net cash provided operating activities. Some the limitations FCF are: • FCF does not reflect our future contractual commitments; and • other companies our industry present similarly titled measures differently than , limiting their usefulness comparative measures. Management compensates for the inherent limitations associated with using the FCF measure through disclosure such limitations, presentation our financial statements accordance with GAAP, and reconciliation FCF the most directly comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided operating activities, presented below. The following reconciliation FCF the most comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided operating activities: Year Ended December , ( millions) Net cash provided operating activities ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ $ Purchases property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow $ , $ $ $ $ ( ) For the year ended December , , net cash provided operating activities was reduced $ million income tax refundable from income tax loss carrybacks due the recognition tax benefits related share-based compensation from RSUs granted prior January , . received substantially all this refund which increased our net cash provided operating activities and FCF for the year ended December , . ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations You should read the following discussion our financial condition and results operations conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . addition our historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause contribute these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere this Annual Report Form - , particularly Part , Item , "Risk Factors." For discussion limitations the measurement certain our user metrics, see the section entitled "Limitations Key Metrics and Other Data." Overview Our mission give people the power share and make the world more open and connected. build products that support our mission creating value for users, marketers, and developers: Users. enable people who use Facebook stay connected with their friends and family, discover and learn what going the world around them, and share and express what matters them the people they care about. Marketers. enable marketers engage with more than billion monthly active users (MAUs) Facebook subsets our users based information they have chosen share with such their age, location, gender, interests. offer marketers benefits such targeted reach, engagement, Facebook ads, Facebook system and measurement. Developers. enable developers use Facebook\' developer services build, grow and monetize their mobile and web applications that integrate with Facebook more rapidly and successfully. generate substantially all our revenue from advertising and from fees associated with our Payments infrastructure that enables users purchase virtual and digital goods from developers with applications the Facebook website. the year ended December , , recorded revenue $ billion , income from operations $ billion and net income $ billion . Trends Our User Metrics The numbers for our key metrics, our daily active users (DAUs), mobile DAUs, MAUs, mobile MAUs and average revenue per user (ARPU), and certain other metric such mobile-only DAUs and mobile-only MAUs, not include Instagram users unless they would otherwise qualify such users, respectively, based their other activities Facebook. addition, other user engagement metrics not include Instagram unless otherwise specifically stated. Trends the number our users affect our revenue and financial results influencing the number ads are able show, the volume Payments transactions, well our expenses and capital expenditures. • Daily Active Users (DAUs). define daily active user registered Facebook user who logged and visited Facebook through our website mobile device, used our Messenger app, took action share content activity with his her Facebook friends connections via third-party website application that integrated with Facebook, given day. view DAUs, and DAUs percentage MAUs, measures user engagement. Note: For purposes reporting DAUs, MAUs, and ARPU geographic region, Europe includes all users Russia and Turkey, Asia includes all users Australia and New Zealand, and Rest World includes all users Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East. Worldwide DAUs increased % million average during December from million during December . experienced growth DAUs across major markets including Brazil, India and the United States. Overall growth DAUs was driven largely increased mobile usage Facebook. The number DAUs using personal computers decreased modestly December compared the same period . • Mobile DAUs . define mobile DAU user who accessed Facebook via mobile application via versions our website such facebook com, whether mobile phone tablet, given day. Worldwide mobile DAUs increased % million average during December from million during December . all regions, increasing number our DAUs are accessing Facebook through mobile devices, with users Brazil, United States and India representing key sources mobile growth average during December compared the same period during . There were million mobile DAUs who accessed Facebook solely through mobile applications our mobile website average during the month ended December , , increasing % from million during the same period . The remaining million mobile DAUs accessed Facebook from both personal computers and mobile devices during December . anticipate that the rate growth mobile usage will continue the primary driver our user growth for the foreseeable future and that usage through personal computers may flat decline worldwide, including key markets such the United States and other developed markets Europe and Asia. • Monthly Active Users (MAUs). define monthly active user registered Facebook user who logged and visited Facebook through our website mobile device, used our Messenger app, took action share content activity with his her Facebook friends connections via third-party website application that integrated with Facebook, the last days the date measurement. MAUs are measure the size our global active user community. December , , had billion MAUs, increase % from December , . Users India, Brazil and Mexico represented key sources growth relative the prior year. • Mobile MAUs . define mobile MAU user who accessed Facebook via mobile application via versions our website such facebook com, whether mobile phone tablet, during the period measurement. Worldwide mobile MAUs increased % million December , from million December , . all regions, increasing number our MAUs are accessing Facebook through mobile devices, with users India, Brazil, and the United States representing key sources mobile growth over the fourth quarter compared the same period . There were million mobile MAUs who accessed Facebook solely through mobile applications our mobile website during the month ended December , , increasing % from million during the same period . The remaining million mobile MAUs accessed Facebook from both personal computers and mobile devices during December . anticipate that the rate growth mobile usage will continue the primary driver our user growth for the foreseeable future and that usage through personal computers will decline worldwide, including key markets such the United States and other developed markets Europe and Asia. Trends Our Monetization User Geography calculate our revenue user geography based our estimate the geography which impressions are delivered virtual and digital goods are purchased. define ARPU our total revenue given geography during given quarter, divided the average the number MAUs the geography the beginning and end the quarter. Annual ARPU the sum respective quarterly ARPU amounts that year. The geography our users affects our revenue and financial results because currently monetize users different geographies different average rates. Our revenue and ARPU regions such United States & Canada and Europe are relatively higher due the size and maturity those advertising markets well our greater sales presence and the number payment methods that make available marketers and users. For example, ARPU for average user United States & Canada more than five times higher than for average user Asia. Note: Our revenue user geography the charts above geographically apportioned based our estimation the geographic location our users when they perform revenue-generating activity. This allocation differs from our revenue geography disclosure our consolidated financial statements where revenue geographically apportioned based the location the marketer developer. For , worldwide ARPU was $ , increase % from . Over this period, ARPU increased approximately % Rest World, % the United States & Canada, % Europe and % Asia. User growth was more rapid geographies with relatively lower ARPU, such Asia and Rest World. expect that user growth the future will continue higher those regions where ARPU relatively lower, such Asia and Rest World, such that worldwide ARPU may continue increase slower rate relative ARPU any geographic region, potentially decrease even ARPU increases each geographic region. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation these consolidated financial statements requires make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. evaluate our estimates and assumptions ongoing basis. Our estimates are based historical experience and various other assumptions that believe reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. accounting policy deemed critical requires accounting estimate made based assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain the time the estimate made, different estimates reasonably could have been used, changes the estimate that are reasonably possible could materially impact the financial statements. believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition for payments and other fees, income taxes, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and business combinations and valuation goodwill and other acquired intangible assets have the greatest potential impact our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, consider these our critical accounting policies and estimates. For further information all our significant accounting policies, see Note our accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . Revenue Recognition for Payments and Other Fees enable Payments from our users developers with applications the Facebook website. Our users can make payments Facebook using debit and credit cards, PayPal, mobile phone payments, gift cards other methods. receive fee from developers when user engages payment transaction for the purchase virtual digital good the Facebook website. The price the virtual digital good price that solely determined the developer. remit the developer amount that based the total amount transaction less the processing fee that charge the developer for the service performed. Our revenue the net amount the transaction representing our processing fee for the transaction. record revenue net basis not consider ourselves the principal the sale the virtual digital good the user. Under GAAP guidance related reporting revenue gross principal versus net agent, the indicators used determine whether entity principal agent transaction are subject judgment. consider ourselves the agent these transactions when apply the indicators our facts. Should material subsequent changes the substance nature the transactions with developers result being considered the principal such sales, would reflect the virtual and digital goods sale revenue and the amounts paid the developers associated cost. Income Taxes are subject income taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties the application accounting principles and complex tax laws. record provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations using the asset and liability method. Under this method, recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, well for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates that are expected apply taxable income for the years which those tax assets and liabilities are expected realized settled. record valuation allowance reduce our deferred tax assets the net amount that believe more likely than not realized. recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only believe that more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities based the technical merits the position. Although believe that have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, can provide assurance that the final tax outcome these matters will not materially different. make adjustments these reserves when facts and circumstances change, such the closing tax audit the refinement estimate. the extent that the final tax outcome these matters different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes the period which such determination made and could have material impact our financial condition and operating results. The provision for income taxes includes the effects any reserves that believe are appropriate, well the related net interest and penalties. Share-based Compensation Prior January , granted RSUs (Pre- RSUs) our employees and members our board directors that vested upon the satisfaction both service-based condition, generally over four years, and liquidity condition. The liquidity condition was satisfied connection with our IPO May . Therefore, did not recognize any expense relating the granting the Pre- RSUs until the completion our IPO. For the Pre- RSUs, recognize share-based compensation expense using the accelerated attribution method, net estimated forfeitures, which compensation cost for each vesting tranche award recognized ratably from the service inception date the vesting date for that tranche. RSUs granted after January , (Post- RSUs) are not subject liquidity condition order vest, and compensation expense related these grants based the grant date fair value the RSUs and recognized straight-line basis over the applicable service period. The majority Post- RSUs are earned over service period four five years . For Post- RSUs, which are only subject service condition, recognize share-based compensation expense ratable basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. account for share-based employee compensation plans under the fair value recognition and measurement provisions accordance with applicable accounting standards, which require all share-based payments employees, including grants stock options and RSUs, measured based the grant-date fair value the awards. Share-based compensation expense recorded net estimated forfeitures our consolidated statements income and such recorded for only those share-based awards that expect vest. estimate the forfeiture rate based historical forfeitures equity awards and adjust the rate reflect changes facts and circumstances, any. will revise our estimated forfeiture rate actual forfeitures differ from our initial estimates. have historically issued unvested restricted shares employee stockholders certain acquired companies. these awards are generally subject continued post-acquisition employment, have accounted for them post-acquisition share-based compensation expense. recognize compensation expense equal the grant date fair value the common stock straight-line basis over the employee\' required service period. Loss Contingencies are involved various lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings that arise the ordinary course business. Certain these matters include speculative claims for substantial indeterminate amounts damages. record liability when believe that both probable that loss has been incurred and the amount can reasonably estimated. Significant judgment required determine both probability and the estimated amount. review these provisions least quarterly and adjust these provisions accordingly reflect the impact negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice legal counsel, and updated information. believe that the amount estimable range reasonably possible loss, will not, either individually the aggregate, have material adverse effect our business, consolidated financial position, results operations, cash flows with respect loss contingencies for legal and other contingencies December , . However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Therefore, one more these legal matters were resolved against for amounts excess management\' expectations, our results operations and financial condition, including particular reporting period, could materially adversely affected. Business Combinations and Valuation Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets allocate the fair value purchase consideration the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based their estimated fair values. The excess the fair value purchase consideration over the fair values these identifiable assets and liabilities recorded goodwill. Such valuations require management make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect intangible assets. During the measurement period, which one year from the acquisition date, may record adjustments the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset goodwill. Upon the conclusion the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded earnings. review goodwill for impairment least annually more frequently events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying value goodwill may not recoverable. have elected first assess the qualitative factors determine whether more likely than not that the fair value our single reporting operating unit less than its carrying amount basis for determining whether necessary perform the two-step goodwill impairment under Accounting Standards Update (ASU) . - , Goodwill and Other (Topic ): Testing Goodwill for Impairment, issued the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). determine that more likely than not that its fair value less than its carrying amount, then the two-step goodwill impairment test will performed. The first step, identifying potential impairment, compares the fair value the reporting unit with its carrying amount. the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, the second step will performed; otherwise, further step required. The second step, measuring the impairment loss, compares the implied fair value the goodwill with the carrying amount the goodwill. Any excess the goodwill carrying amount over the applied fair value recognized impairment loss, and the carrying value goodwill written down fair value. December , , impairment goodwill has been identified. Acquired intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. evaluate the recoverability amortizable intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events circumstances indicate that the carrying amount such assets may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison the carrying amounts the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. such review indicates that the carrying amount property and equipment and intangible assets not recoverable, the carrying amount such assets reduced fair value. have not recorded any such impairment charge during the years presented. addition the recoverability assessment, routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives our amortizable intangible assets. reduce the estimated useful life assumption for any asset, the remaining unamortized balance would amortized over the revised estimated useful life. Components Results Operations Revenue generate substantially all our revenue from advertising and from fees associated with our Payments infrastructure that enables users purchase virtual and digital goods from our developers with applications the Facebook website. Advertising. Our advertising revenue generated displaying products the Facebook website mobile application and third-party affiliated websites mobile applications. Marketers pay for products either directly through their relationships with advertising agencies, based the number clicks made our users, the number actions taken our users the number impressions delivered. recognize revenue from the delivery click-based ads the period which user clicks the content, and action-based ads the period which user takes the action the marketer contracted for. recognize revenue from the display impression-based ads the contracted period which the impressions are delivered. Impressions are considered delivered when displayed users. The number ads show subject methodological changes continue evolve our ads business and the structure our ads products. Whether count the initial display only every display impression dependent where the displayed. For example, individual News Feed that purchased impression basis may displayed users more than once during day; however, only the initial display the considered impression, regardless how many times the actually displayed within the News Feed particular user. calculate price per total revenue divided the number ads delivered, representing the effective price paid per impression marketer regardless their desired objective such impression, click, action. Payments and other fees. enable Payments from our users purchase virtual and digital goods from our developers with applications the Facebook website. Our users can transact and make payments the Facebook website using debit and credit cards, PayPal, mobile phone payments, gift cards other methods. receive fee from developers when users make purchases these applications using our Payments infrastructure. recognize revenue net amounts remitted our developers. have mandated the use our Payments infrastructure for game applications Facebook, and fees related Payments are generated almost exclusively from games. Our other fees revenue, which has not been significant recent periods, consists primarily user Promoted Posts and our serving and measurement products. Cost Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost revenue. Our cost revenue consists primarily expenses associated with the delivery and distribution our products. These include expenses related the operation our data centers such facility and server equipment depreciation, facility and server equipment rent expense, energy and bandwidth costs, support and maintenance costs, and salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for employees our operations teams. Cost revenue also includes credit card and other transaction fees related processing customer transactions. Research and development. Research and development expenses consist primarily salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for employees our engineering and technical teams who are responsible for building new products well improving existing products. expense all our research and development costs they are incurred. Marketing and sales. Our marketing and sales expenses consist primarily salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for our employees engaged sales, sales support, marketing, business development, and customer service functions. Our marketing and sales expenses also include user-, developer-, and marketer-facing marketing and promotional expenditures. General and administrative. Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for our executives well our legal, finance, human resources, corporate communications and policy, and other administrative employees. addition, general and administrative expenses include outside consulting fees, and legal and accounting services. General and administrative expenses also include legal settlements and amortization patents acquired. Results Operations The following table set forth our consolidated statements income data: Year Ended December , ( millions) Consolidated Statements Income Data: Revenue $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost revenue , , Research and development , , Marketing and sales General and administrative Total costs and expenses , , , Income from operations , , Interest and other expense, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Income before provision for income taxes , , Provision for income taxes , Net income $ , $ $ , Share-based compensation expense included costs and expenses: Year Ended December , ( millions) Cost revenue $ $ $ Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total share-based compensation expense $ $ , $ The following table set forth our consolidated statements income data ( percentage revenue): Year Ended December , Consolidated Statements Income Data: Revenue % % % Costs and expenses: Cost revenue Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total costs and expenses Income from operations Interest and other expense, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Income before provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income % % % Share-based compensation expense included costs and expenses ( percentage revenue): Year Ended December , Cost revenue % % — % Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total share-based compensation expense % % % Revenue Year Ended December , % Change % Change ( millions) Advertising $ , $ , $ , % % Payments and other fees % % Total revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Compared . Revenue increased $ billion , % compared . The increase was due primarily % increase advertising revenue during compared . The most important factor driving advertising revenue growth was increase revenue from ads News Feed both mobile devices and personal computers. News Feed ads are displayed more prominently, have significantly higher levels engagement and higher price per relative our other placements. , estimate that mobile advertising revenue represented approximately % total advertising revenue, compared with % . Other factors that influenced our advertising revenue growth included increase the number marketers actively advertising Facebook, which believe increased demand for our inventory, and % growth average DAUs from December December . compared , increased the number ads shown % and the average price per %. The increase average price per was driven primarily the increased number News Feed ads both mobile devices and personal computers, offset partially product changes including our decision lower the market reserve price, . the minimum price threshold accepted our auction. The increase the number ads shown was driven user growth and the reserve price change, partially offset shift towards more usage mobile devices, where show fewer ads than personal computers. Advertising revenue the fourth quarter increased % compared the same period . The increase revenue the fourth quarter was driven the same factors that drove annual revenue growth, primarily increase revenue from ads News Feed both mobile devices and personal computers. For the fourth quarter , estimate that mobile advertising revenue represented approximately % total advertising revenue, compared with % the same period . Advertising spending traditionally seasonally strong the fourth quarter each year. believe that this seasonality advertising spending affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect significant growth advertising revenue between the third and fourth quarters and decline advertising spending between the fourth and subsequent first quarters. For instance, our advertising revenue increased %, %, and % between the third and fourth quarters , and , respectively, while advertising revenue for the first quarter and declined % and % compared the fourth quarters and , respectively. Payments and other fees revenue increased $ million , % , compared . The increase Payments and other fees revenue result increased Payments revenue from games played Facebook personal computers, and lesser extent, the inclusion other fees revenue from user Promoted Posts and our serving and measurement products. Payments and other fees revenue the fourth quarter was $ million , compared $ million the same period , which was affected one-time increase Payments revenue the fourth quarter . Our Payments terms and conditions provide for -day claim period subsequent Payments transaction during which the customer may dispute the virtual digital goods transaction. Due lack historical transactional information, through the third quarter , deferred recognition Payments revenue until the expiration the claim period were unable make reasonable and reliable estimates future refunds chargebacks arising during this period. Beginning the fourth quarter , had months historical transactional information which enabled estimate future refunds and chargebacks. Accordingly, commencing the fourth quarter , recorded all Payments revenues the time the purchase the related virtual digital goods, net estimated refunds chargebacks. This change resulted one-time increase Payments revenue the fourth quarter approximately $ million recognized revenue from four months transactions. , generated approximately % our revenue from marketers and developers based the United States, compared % . The change due faster growth rate international users and the expansion international sales offices and payment methods. The majority our revenue outside the United States came from customers located Western Europe, Canada, Australia and Brazil. Compared . Revenue increased $ billion, % compared . The increase was due primarily % increase advertising revenue during compared . Advertising revenue grew due % increase the number ads delivered during and % increase the average price per . The increase ads delivered was driven primarily user growth. Average DAUs grew % from December December and MAUs grew % from December , December , . Various product changes and changes user engagement generally offset their impact the average number ads per user. For example, the shift greater mobile use generally reduced ads per user, while the introduction ads News Feed increased the number ads per user. The rate change number ads delivered also differs geography, driven factors such mobile penetration. For example, Europe and Rest World increased faster rate than the United States and Asia. Growth the average price per during compared was driven primarily increase price per the United States, which benefited from growth ads News Feed across desktop and mobile devices. Ads News Feed have significantly higher average price per due factors which include the prominent position the ads. The increase price per the United States was partially offset increased percentage our worldwide ads being delivered the Asia and Rest World geographies where the average price per , while growing year-over-year basis, relatively lower. The average price per was also affected decline the average price per Europe compared due the impact foreign exchange rate changes, increase the percentage ads being delivered European regions where the average price per ads relatively lower, and part, believe, continuing weak economic conditions that region affecting advertiser demand. , estimate that mobile advertising revenue percentage advertising revenue was approximately % . mobile advertising was not offered prior the first quarter , comparisons prior year are not meaningful. Payments and other fees revenue increased $ million, %, compared . Excluding the one-time increase Payments revenue described above, Payments and other fees revenue increased % compared . Facebook Payments became mandatory for all game developers accepting payments the Facebook website with limited exceptions July , . Accordingly, comparisons Payments and other fees revenue periods before this date may not meaningful. , generated approximately % our revenue from marketers and developers based the United States, compared % . The change due primarily faster growth rate international users and, lesser extent, the expansion international sales offices and payment methods. The majority our revenue outside the United States came from customers located western Europe, Canada, Australia and Brazil. customer represented % more total revenue during the years ended December , and and one customer represented % total revenue for the year ended December , . Cost revenue Year Ended December , % Change % Change (dollars millions) Cost revenue $ , $ , $ % % Percentage revenue % % % Compared . Cost revenue increased $ million , % , compared . The increase was primarily due operational expenses related expanding our data center and technical infrastructure, including $ million increase depreciation . addition, recognized $ million lease abandonment expense primarily due exiting certain leased data centers resulting from the migration operations our own data centers. the event that circumstances change such that decide -occupy and utilize any the data centers have exited, would reverse the remaining lease abandonment liability associated with those facilities. The increase cost revenue was partially offset $ million decrease share-based compensation expense compared mainly due the recognition expense the prior period related Pre- RSUs result our IPO May . Compared . Cost revenue increased $ million, %, compared . The increase was primarily due expenses related expanding our data center operations, including $ million increase depreciation . Share-based compensation expense increased $ million compared mainly due the recognition expenses related Pre- RSUs triggered the completion our IPO May and, lesser extent, Post- RSUs. Increases payroll and benefits expenses resulting from % increase employee headcount also contributed the increase cost revenue . These expenses supported our user growth, the increased usage products users, developers, and marketers, and the launch new products. anticipate that the cost revenue will increase dollar amount and for the foreseeable future expand our data center capacity and technical infrastructure support user growth, increased user engagement, and the delivery new products and offerings. The expected increase cost revenue may partially mitigated the extent are able realize improvements server and network performance and the efficiency our technical operations. Research and development Year Ended December , % Change % Change (dollars millions) Research and development $ , $ , $ % % Percentage revenue % % % Compared . Research and development expenses increased $ million , % , compared . The increase was primarily due increase payroll and benefits expense resulting from % growth employee headcount from December , December , engineering and other technical functions. This increase was offset $ million decrease share-based compensation expense compared mainly due the recognition expense the prior period related Pre- RSUs result our IPO May . Compared . Research and development expenses increased $ billion, %, compared . The increase was primarily due increase share-based compensation expense $ million resulting primarily from the recognition expenses related Pre- RSUs triggered the completion our IPO May and, lesser extent, Post- RSUs. Payroll and benefits expense also increased due % growth employee headcount engineering, design, product management, and other technical functions. This investment supported our efforts improve existing products and build new products for users, developers, and marketers. , plan continue hiring software engineers and other technical employees. expect research and development expenses will rise higher rate than rose due the large share-based compensation expense associated with Pre- RSUs result our IPO which lowered the growth rate between and . Marketing and sales Year Ended December , % Change % Change (dollars millions) Marketing and sales $ $ $ % % Percentage revenue % % % Compared . Marketing and sales expenses increased $ million , % , compared . The increase was primarily due increase payroll and benefits expenses resulting from % increase employee headcount from December , December , support global sales, business development and customer service. Our user-, developer-, and marketer-facing marketing expense also contributed the increase . These increases were partially offset decrease share-based compensation expense $ million compared primarily due the recognition expense the prior period related Pre- RSUs result our IPO May . Compared . Marketing and sales expenses increased $ million, %, compared . The increase was primarily due increase share-based compensation expense $ million resulting primarily from the recognition expenses related Pre- RSUs triggered the completion our IPO May and, lesser extent, Post- RSUs. Payroll and benefits expenses also increased due % increase employee headcount support global sales, business development and customer service. increase our user-, developer-, and marketer-facing marketing expense also contributed the increase . , plan add sales and business development employees, and increase our investment user-, developer-, and marketer-facing marketing. expect marketing and sales expenses will rise higher rate than rose due the large share-based compensation expense associated with Pre- RSUs result our IPO which lowered the growth rate between and . General and administrative Year Ended December , % Change % Change (dollars millions) General and administrative $ $ $ ( )% % Percentage revenue % % % Compared . General and administrative expenses decreased $ million , % , compared . The decrease was primarily due $ million decrease share-based compensation expense compared resulting from recognition expense related Pre- RSUs result our IPO May . The decrease was partially offset increased payroll and benefits expense resulting from % increase employee headcount and increased amortization acquired patents. Compared . General and administrative expenses increased $ million, %, compared . The increase was primarily due increase share-based compensation expense $ million resulting from recognition expense related Pre- RSUs and, lesser extent, Post- RSUs. The increase was also due growth legal fees and settlement costs, amortization acquired patents and other professional service fees. Payroll and benefits expenses also increased for due % increase employee headcount corporate communications and policy, human resources, legal, finance, and other functions. , expect general and administrative expenses will grow relative continue increase general and administrative employee headcount support our growth. Interest and other expense, net Year Ended December , % Change % Change ( millions) Interest expense $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) % % Other income (expense), net ( ) ( )% % Interest and other expense, net $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) % ( )% Compared . Interest and other expense, net increased $ million , % , compared . Interest expense increased $ million primarily due interest the $ billion term loan that was drawn down the fourth quarter and fully repaid August . Other income, net decreased $ million compared primarily due increase foreign exchange loss resulting from the periodic -measurement our foreign currency balances, offset increase interest income resulting from higher invested cash balances. Compared . Interest and other expense, net decreased $ million, %, compared . Interest expense increased $ million primarily due increased volume property and equipment financed capital leases for and interest the $ billion term loan that was drawn down the fourth quarter . Changes other income (expense), net were primarily due lower foreign exchange losses resulting from the periodic -measurement our foreign currency balances and increase interest income driven higher invested cash balances. Provision for income taxes Year Ended December , % Change % Change (dollars millions) Provision for income taxes $ , $ $ % ( )% Effective tax rate % % % Compared . Our provision for income taxes increased $ million , % , compared , primarily due increase pretax income. Our effective tax rate decreased primarily due lower amount non-deductible share-based compensation resulting from recognition expense related Pre- RSUs result our IPO May . Our effective tax rate was also lower due the reinstatement the federal tax credit for research and development activities. recognized the benefit from the reinstatement the tax credit for and during the year ended December , . Compared . Our provision for income taxes decreased $ million, %, compared , primarily due decrease pretax income. Our effective tax rate increased primarily due the impact non-deductible share-based compensation and the losses arising outside the United States jurisdictions where not receive tax benefit. Our effective tax rate was also higher due the expiration the federal tax credit for research and development activities. Quarterly Results Operations Data The following tables set forth our unaudited quarterly consolidated statements operations data dollars and percentage total revenue for each the eight quarters the period ended December , . have prepared the quarterly consolidated statements operations data basis consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . the opinion management, the financial information reflects all adjustments, consisting only normal recurring adjustments, which consider necessary for fair presentation this data. This information should read conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . The results historical periods are not necessarily indicative the results operations for any future period. Three Months Ended Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , ( millions) Consolidated Statements Operations Data: Revenue: Advertising $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ $ Payments and other fees ( ) Total revenue , , , , , , , , Costs and expenses: Cost revenue Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total costs and expenses , , , , , , Income (loss) from operations , ( ) Interest and other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Income (loss) before provision for (benefit from) income taxes , ( ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes ( ) Net income (loss) $ $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Less: Net income attributable participating securities — — — Net income (loss) attributable Class and Class common stockholders $ $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Earnings (loss) per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders: Basic $ $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Share-based compensation expense included costs and expenses: Three Months Ended Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , ( millions) Cost revenue $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total share-based compensation expense ( ) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ , $ _____________________ ( ) Commencing the fourth quarter , recorded all Payments revenue the time purchase the related virtual digital goods, net estimated refunds chargebacks, instead deferring Payment revenue until the expiration the -day claim period, are able estimate future refunds and chargebacks based historical trends. This charge resulted one-time increase Payment revenue $ million the fourth quarter . ( ) the second quarter , recognized $ million share-based compensation expense related Pre- RSUs that vested connection with our IPO. Three Months Ended Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , ( percentage total revenue) Consolidated Statements Operations Data: Revenue: Advertising % % % % % % % % Payments and other fees Total revenue % % % % % % % % Costs and expenses: Cost revenue Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total costs and expenses Income (loss) from operations ( ) Interest and other income (expense), net — — ( ) ( ) ( ) — ( ) — Income (loss) before provision for (benefit from) income taxes ( ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes ( ) Net income (loss) % % % % % ( )% ( )% % Less: Net income attributable participating securities — — — — — — — Net income (loss) attributable Class and Class common stockholders % % % % % ( )% ( )% % Share-based compensation expense included costs and expenses: Three Months Ended Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , ( percentage total revenue) Cost revenue — % % % % % % % —% Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total share-based compensation expense % % % % % % % % Liquidity and Capital Resources Year Ended December , ( millions) Consolidated Statements Cash Flows Data: Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ , $ , Net cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash (used ) provided financing activities ( ) , , Purchases property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Depreciation and amortization , Share-based compensation , Our principal sources liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash generated from operations. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities consist primarily cash deposit with banks and investments money market funds and . government and . government agency securities. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $ billion December , , increase $ billion from December , , primarily due $ billion cash generated from operations, $ billion net proceeds from our follow- equity offering which was completed December , and $ million excess tax benefit from share-based award activity, offset the repayment our $ billion term loan, $ billion for purchases property and equipment and $ million for tax payments related net share settlement equity awards. January , began requiring that employees sell portion the shares that they receive upon the vesting RSUs order cover any required withholding taxes ("sell- -cover"), rather than our previous approach net share settlement. expect this sell- -cover approach will reduce our cash outflows. currently anticipate that our available funds, credit facilities, and cash flow from operations will sufficient meet our operational cash needs for the foreseeable future. August , connection with the termination our existing credit facilities, entered into five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility ( Revolving Credit Facility) that allows borrow $ billion fund working capital and general corporate purposes with interest payable the borrowed amounts set LIBOR plus %, well annual commitment fee % the daily undrawn balance the facility. paid origination fees closing the Revolving Credit Facility, which fees are being amortized over the term the facility. Any amounts outstanding under this facility will due and payable August , . December , , amounts had been drawn down and were compliance with the covenants under this credit facility. See Note the notes the consolidated financial statements included Part , Item for additional detail. December , , $ million the $ billion cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities was held our foreign subsidiaries. have provided for the additional taxes that would due repatriated these funds for use our operations the United States. Cash Provided Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities during primarily consisted net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization $ billion and share-based compensation expense $ million , and increase other liabilities related uncertain tax positions. The cash flow from operating activities during compared increased mainly due increase net income $ billion and uncertain tax position $ million. addition, received income tax refunds $ million . Cash flow from operating activities during primarily consisted adjustments net income for certain non-cash items such share-based compensation expense $ billion and depreciation and amortization $ million, partially offset income tax refundable $ million. The cash flow from operating activities during compared increased modestly the increases adjustments for non-cash items described above were offset reduction net income $ million and increase income tax refundable. Cash flow from operating activities during primarily consisted net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization $ million and share-based compensation expense $ million. Cash Used Investing Activities Cash used investing activities during primarily resulted from $ billion for capital expenditures related the purchase servers, network infrastructure, and the construction data centers, well $ million for the net purchase marketable securities and $ million for the acquisition businesses and other assets, such patents. The decrease cash used investing activities during compared was mainly due decreases the purchase marketable securities and the acquisition businesses and other assets. Cash used investing activities during primarily resulted from $ billion for the net purchase marketable securities, $ billion for capital expenditures related the purchase servers, network infrastructure, and the construction data centers, well $ million for the acquisition businesses and other assets, such patents. The increase cash used investing activities during compared was mainly due increases the purchase marketable securities, the acquisition businesses and other assets, and capital expenditures. Cash used investing activities during primarily resulted from the use approximately $ billion for the net purchase marketable securities. Our cash used investing activities also consisted capital expenditures $ million related the purchase servers, network infrastructure, and the construction data centers. anticipate making capital expenditures approximately $ billion $ billion. Cash (Used ) Provided Financing Activities Cash used financing activities during was $ million , which primarily resulted from $ billion for repayment debt and $ million tax payments related the net share settlement equity awards, partially offset $ billion net proceeds from the completion our follow- equity offering December . Cash provided financing activities during was $ billion, which primarily resulted from $ billion net proceeds from the completion our IPO, $ billion draw down from our unsecured term loan facility and $ billion excess tax benefits from stock award activities, partially offset $ billion taxes paid related the net share settlement equity awards. Cash provided financing activities during was $ billion, primarily resulted from $ million net proceeds related the completion offering our Class common stock certain non- . investors. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements December , . Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist obligations under capital and operating leases for equipment and office and data center facilities. The following table summarizes our commitments settle contractual obligations cash December , . Payment Due Period Total Less than Year - Years - Years More than Years Operating lease obligations $ $ $ $ $ Capital lease obligations Other contractual commitments ( ) Total contractual obligations $ , $ $ $ $ _____________________ ( ) Other contractual commitments primarily relate network infrastructure for our data center operations and, lesser extent, construction commitments related our data center sites. addition, our other liabilities include $ million related uncertain tax positions December , . Due uncertainties the timing the completion tax audits, the timing the resolution these positions uncertain and are unable make reasonably reliable estimate the timing payments individual years beyond months. result, this amount not included the above contractual obligations table. Contingencies are involved claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and proceedings. record provision for liability when believe that both probable that liability has been incurred, and the amount can reasonably estimated. Significant judgment required determine both probability and the estimated amount. Such legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and subject significant uncertainties, some which are beyond our control. Should any these estimates and assumptions change prove incorrect, could have material impact our results operations, financial position, and cash flows. See Note the accompanying notes our consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Part , Item , "Legal Proceedings" this Annual Report Form - for additional information regarding contingencies. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncement Comprehensive Income February , the FASB issued ASU . - , Comprehensive Income (Topic ): Reporting Amounts Reclassified Out Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (ASU - ) which effective prospectively for public companies for reporting periods beginning after December , . This new accounting standard improves the reporting reclassifications out accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) requiring entity report the effect significant reclassifications out AOCI the respective line items net income the amount being reclassified required under GAAP reclassified its entirety net income. For other amounts that are not required under GAAP reclassified their entirety net income the same reporting period, entity required cross-reference other disclosures required under GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. adopted this new guidance January , and the adoption did not have material effect our consolidated financial statements. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk are exposed market risks, including changes foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and inflation. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk have foreign currency risks related our revenue and operating expenses denominated currencies other than the . dollar, primarily the Euro. general, are net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, will negatively affect our revenue and other operating results expressed . dollars. have experienced and will continue experience fluctuations our net income result transaction gains losses related revaluing certain current asset and current liability balances that are denominated currencies other than the functional currency the entities which they are recorded. this time have not entered into, but the future may enter into, derivatives other financial instruments attempt hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. difficult predict the effect hedging activities would have our results operations. recognized foreign currency losses $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and , respectively. Interest Rate Sensitivity Our exposure changes interest rates relates primarily interest earned and market value our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities consist cash, certificates deposit, time deposits, money market funds, and . government and . government agency securities . Our investment policy and strategy are focused preservation capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. Changes . interest rates affect the interest earned our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities and the market value those securities. hypothetical basis point increase interest rates would result decrease approximately $ million and $ million the market value our available-for-sale debt securities December , and December , , respectively. Any realized gains losses resulting from such interest rate changes would only occur sold the investments prior maturity. Inflation Risk not believe that inflation has had material effect our business, financial condition, results operations. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data FACEBOOK, INC. INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements: The supplementary financial information required this Item , included Part , Item under the caption "Quarterly Results Operations Data," which incorporated herein reference. Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Stockholders Facebook, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Facebook, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements income, comprehensive income, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Facebook, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Facebook, Inc.\' internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated January , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Francisco, California January , Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Stockholders Facebook, Inc. have audited Facebook, Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (“the COSO criteria”). Facebook, Inc.’ management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management’ Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company’ internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Facebook, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements Facebook, Inc. and our report dated January , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Francisco, California January , FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except for number shares and par value) December , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, net allowances for doubtful accounts $ and $ December , and December , , respectively , Income tax refundable Prepaid expenses and other current assets Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Goodwill and intangible assets, net , , Other assets Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\' equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ $ Developer partners payable Accrued expenses and other current liabilities Deferred revenue and deposits Current portion capital lease obligations Total current liabilities , , Capital lease obligations, less current portion Long-term debt — , Other liabilities , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Common stock, $ par value; , million Class shares authorized, , million and , million shares issued and outstanding, including million and million outstanding shares subject repurchase December , and December , , respectively; , million Class shares authorized, million and million shares issued and outstanding, including million and million outstanding shares subject repurchase December , and December , , respectively — — Additional paid- capital , , Accumulated other comprehensive income Retained earnings , , Total stockholders\' equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS INCOME ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December , Revenue $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost revenue , , Research and development , , Marketing and sales General and administrative Total costs and expenses , , , Income from operations , , Interest and other income (expense), net: Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net ( ) Income before provision for income taxes , , Provision for income taxes , Net income $ , $ $ , Less: Net income attributable participating securities Net income attributable Class and Class common stockholders $ , $ $ Earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares used compute earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Share-based compensation expense included costs and expenses: Cost revenue $ $ $ Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total share-based compensation expense $ $ , $ See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Year Ended December , Net income $ , $ $ , Other comprehensive income (loss): Change foreign currency translation adjustment — Change unrealized gain loss available-for-sale investments, net tax ( ) — Change unrealized gain loss derivative, net tax ( ) — Comprehensive income $ , $ $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( millions) Convertible Preferred Stock Class and Class Common Stock Additional Paid- Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income Retained Earnings Total Stockholders\' Equity Shares Amount Shares Par Value Balances December , $ , $ — $ $ ( ) $ $ , Issuance common stock, net issuance costs — — — — — Issuance common stock for cash upon exercise stock options — — — — — Issuance common stock nonemployees for past services — — — — — — Issuance common stock related acquisitions — — — — — Exercise preferred stock warrants — — — — — — — Conversion Series & preferred stock common stock ( ) — — — — — — Share-based compensation, related employee share-based awards — — — — — — Tax benefit from share-based award activity — — — — — — Net income — — — — — — , , Balances December , , — , ( ) , , Issuance common stock, net issuance costs — — — , — — , Issuance common stock for cash upon exercise stock options — — — — — Issuance common stock nonemployees for past services — — — — — — Issuance common stock related acquisitions — — — — — Issuance common stock for settlement restricted stock units (RSUs) — — — — — — — Shares withheld related net share settlement RSUs — — ( ) — ( , ) — — ( , ) Conversion Series , , , & preferred stock common stock ( ) ( ) — — — — Share-based compensation, related employee share-based awards — — — — , — — , Tax benefit from share-based award activity — — — — , — — , Other comprehensive income — — — — — — Net income — — — — — — Balances December , — — , — , , , Issuance common stock, net issuance costs — — — , — — , Issuance common stock for cash upon exercise stock options — — — — — Issuance common stock nonemployees for past services — — — — — — Issuance common stock related acquisitions — — — — — Issuance common stock for settlement RSUs — — — — — — — Shares withheld related net share settlement RSUs — — ( ) — ( ) — — ( ) Share-based compensation, related employee share-based awards — — — — — — Tax benefit from share-based award activity — — — — — — Other comprehensive income — — — — — — Net income — — — — — — , , Balances December , — $ — , $ — $ , $ $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , Cash flows from operating activities Net income $ , $ $ , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash provided operating activities: Depreciation and amortization , Lease abandonment expense — Loss disposal write-off equipment Share-based compensation , Deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Tax benefit from share-based award activity , Excess tax benefit from share-based award activity ( ) ( , ) ( ) Changes assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( ) Income tax refundable ( ) — Prepaid expenses and other current assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other assets ( ) ( ) Accounts payable Developer partners payable ( ) Accrued expenses and other current liabilities ( ) Deferred revenue and deposits ( ) Other liabilities Net cash provided operating activities , , , Cash flows from investing activities Purchases property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sales marketable securities , , Maturities marketable securities , , Investments non-marketable equity securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Acquisitions businesses, net cash acquired, and purchases intangible assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Change restricted cash and deposits ( ) ( ) Net cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cash flows from financing activities Net proceeds from issuance common stock , , Taxes paid related net share settlement equity awards ( ) ( , ) — Proceeds from exercise stock options Proceeds from long-term debt, net issuance cost — , — Repayment long-term debt ( , ) — ( ) Proceeds from sale and lease-back transactions — Principal payments capital lease obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Excess tax benefit from share-based award activity , Net cash (used ) provided financing activities ( ) , , Effect exchange rate changes cash and cash equivalents Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents ( ) Cash and cash equivalents beginning period , , , Cash and cash equivalents end period $ , $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , Supplemental cash flow data Cash paid during the period for: Interest $ $ $ Income taxes $ $ $ Cash received during the period for: Refund income taxes $ $ $ — Non-cash investing and financing activities: Net change accounts payable and accrued expenses and other current liabilities related property and equipment additions $ $ ( ) $ Property and equipment acquired under capital leases $ $ $ Fair value shares issued related acquisitions businesses and other assets $ $ $ See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note . Summary Significant Accounting Policies Organization and Description Business Facebook was incorporated Delaware July . Our mission give people the power share and make the world more open and connected. build products that support our mission providing value Facebook users, marketers, and developers. generate substantially all our revenue from advertising and from fees associated with our Payments infrastructure that enables users purchase virtual and digital goods from developers with applications the Facebook website. Basis Presentation prepared the consolidated financial statements accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Facebook, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates Conformity with GAAP requires the use estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. These estimates form the basis for judgments make about the carrying values our assets and liabilities, which are not readily apparent from other sources. base our estimates and judgments historical information and various other assumptions that believe are reasonable under the circumstances. GAAP requires make estimates and judgments several areas, including, but not limited , those related revenue recognition, collectability accounts receivable, contingent liabilities, fair value acquired intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives intangible assets and property and equipment, and income taxes. These estimates are based management\' knowledge about current events and expectations about actions may undertake the future. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Reclassifications have reclassified certain prior period amounts within our consolidated statements cash flows conform our current year presentation. Revenue Recognition generate substantially all our revenue from advertising and payment processing fees. recognize revenue once all the following criteria have been met: • persuasive evidence arrangement exists; • delivery our obligations our customer has occurred; • the price fixed determinable; and • collectability the related receivable reasonably assured. Revenue for the years ended December , , , and consists the following ( millions): Year Ended December , Advertising $ , $ , $ , Payments and other fees Total revenue $ , $ , $ , Advertising Advertising revenue generated displaying products the Facebook website mobile application and third-party affiliated websites mobile applications. The arrangements are evidenced either online acceptance terms and conditions contracts that stipulate the types advertising delivered, the timing and the pricing. Marketers pay for products either directly through their relationships with advertising agencies, based the number clicks made our users, the number actions taken our users the number impressions delivered. The typical term advertising arrangement approximately days with billing generally occurring after the delivery the advertisement. recognize revenue from the delivery click-based ads the period which user clicks the content, and action-based ads the period which user takes the action the marketer contracted for. recognize revenue from the display impression-based ads the contracted period which the impressions are delivered. Impressions are considered delivered when displayed users. Payments and Other Fees enable Payments from our users purchase virtual and digital goods from our developers with applications the Facebook website. Our users can transact and make payments the Facebook website using debit cards and credit cards, PayPal, mobile phone payments, gift cards other methods. When user engages payment transaction for the purchase virtual digital good from developer, remit the developer amount that based the total amount the transaction less the processing fee that charge the developer. The price the purchase amount that solely determined the developer. Our revenue the net amount the transaction, representing our processing fee for the service performed. record revenue net basis not consider ourselves the principal the sale the virtual digital good the user. Our Payments terms and conditions provide for -day claim period subsequent Payments transaction during which the customer may dispute the virtual digital goods transaction. Due lack historical transactional information, through the third quarter , deferred recognition Payments revenue until the expiration the claim period were unable make reasonable and reliable estimates future refunds chargebacks arising during this period. Beginning the fourth quarter , had months historical transactional information which enabled estimate future refunds and chargebacks. Accordingly, commencing the fourth quarter , record all Payments revenues the time the purchase the related virtual digital goods, net estimated refunds chargebacks. This change resulted one-time increase Payments revenue the fourth quarter approximately $ million recognized revenue from four months transactions. Other fees, which includes user Promoted Posts and our serving and measurement products, were not material all periods presented our financial statements. Revenue recognized net applicable sales and other taxes. Cost Revenue Our cost revenue consists primarily expenses associated with the delivery and distribution our products. These include expenses related the operation our data centers such facility and server equipment depreciation, facility and server equipment rent expense, energy and bandwidth costs, support and maintenance costs, and salaries, benefits and share-based compensation for certain personnel our operations teams. Cost revenue also includes credit card and other transaction fees related processing customer transactions. Share-based Compensation account for share-based employee compensation plans under the fair value recognition and measurement provisions GAAP. Those provisions require all share-based payments employees, including grants stock options and RSUs, measured based the grant-date fair value the awards, with the resulting expense generally recognized our consolidated statements income over the period during which the employee required perform service exchange for the award. Prior January , , granted RSUs (Pre- RSUs) under our Stock Plan our employees and members our board directors that vested upon the satisfaction both service condition and liquidity condition. The service condition for the majority these awards satisfied over four years . The liquidity condition was satisfied six months after our initial public offering (IPO) May . The vesting condition that was satisfied six months following our IPO did not affect the expense attribution period for the RSUs for which the service condition had been met the date our IPO. This six-month period was not substantive service condition and, accordingly, beginning the effectiveness our IPO May , began recognizing share-based compensation expense for the portion the RSUs that had met the service condition, following the accelerated attribution method (net estimated forfeitures). RSUs granted after January , (Post- RSUs) under our Stock Plan Equity Incentive Plan ( Plan) are not subject liquidity condition order vest, and compensation expense related these grants based the grant date fair value the RSUs and recognized straight-line basis over the applicable service period. The majority Post- RSUs are earned over service period four five years . Share-based compensation expense recorded net estimated forfeitures our consolidated statements income and such, only those share-based awards that expect vest are recorded. estimate the forfeiture rate based historical forfeitures equity awards and adjust the rate reflect changes facts and circumstances, any. will revise our estimated forfeiture rate actual forfeitures differ from our initial estimates. have historically issued unvested restricted shares employee stockholders certain acquired companies. these awards are generally subject continued post-acquisition employment, have accounted for them post-acquisition share-based compensation expense. recognize compensation expense equal the grant date fair value the common stock straight-line basis over the employee\' required service period. During the years ended December , , , and , realized tax benefits from share-based award activity $ million , $ billion , and $ million , respectively. These amounts reflect the extent that the total reduction our income tax liability from share-based award activity was greater than the amount the deferred tax assets that had previously recorded anticipation these benefits. These amounts are the aggregate the individual transactions which the reduction our income tax liability was greater than the deferred tax assets that recorded, reduced any individual transactions which the reduction our income tax liability was less than the deferred tax assets that were recorded. These net amounts were recorded adjustment stockholders\' equity each period, increase cash flows from operating activities, and were not recognized our consolidated statements income. addition, reported excess tax benefits that decreased our cash flows from operating activities and increased our cash flows from financing activities for the years ended December , , , and , $ million , $ billion , and $ million , respectively. The amounts these excess tax benefits reflect the total the individual transactions which the reduction our income tax liability was greater than the deferred tax assets that were recorded, but were not reduced any the individual transactions which the reduction our income tax liability was less than the deferred tax assets that were recorded. Income Taxes recognize income taxes under the asset and liability method. recognize deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the expected future consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities. These differences are measured using the enacted statutory tax rates that are expected apply taxable income for the years which differences are expected reverse. recognize the effect deferred income taxes change tax rates income the period that includes the enactment date. record valuation allowance reduce our deferred tax assets the net amount that believe more likely than not realized. consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels income, expectations and risks associated with estimates future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies assessing the need for valuation allowance. recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only believe that more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities based the technical merits the position. make adjustments these reserves when facts and circumstances change, such the closing tax audit the refinement estimate. The provision for income taxes includes the effects any reserves that are considered appropriate, well the related net interest and penalties. Advertising Expense Advertising costs are expensed when incurred and are included marketing and sales expenses the accompanying consolidated statements income. incurred advertising expenses $ million , $ million , and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. Cash and Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist cash deposit with banks and investments money market funds, and . government and . government agency securities with maturities days less from the date purchase. hold investments marketable securities, consisting . government and . government agency securities . classify our marketable securities available-for-sale investments our current assets because they represent investments cash available for current operations. Our available-for-sale investments are carried estimated fair value with any unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, included accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) stockholders\' equity. Unrealized losses are charged against other income (expense), net when decline fair value determined other-than-temporary. have not recorded any such impairment charge the periods presented. determine realized gains losses sale marketable securities specific identification method, and record such gains losses other income (expense), net. classify certain restricted cash balances within prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets the accompanying consolidated balance sheets based upon the term the remaining restrictions. Fair Value Financial Instruments apply fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis. define fair value the price that would received from selling asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, which are required recorded fair value, consider the principal most advantageous market which would transact and the market-based risk measurements assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability, such risks inherent valuation techniques, transfer restrictions and credit risk. Fair value estimated applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level input that available and significant the fair value measurement: Level -Quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. Level -Observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Level -Inputs that are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\' estimate assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. Our valuation techniques used measure the fair value money market funds and marketable debt securities were derived from quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities and our valuation technique used measure the fair value our derivative instrument was based model-driven valuation using significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Accounts receivable are recorded and carried the original invoiced amount less allowance for any potential uncollectible amounts. make estimates for the allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our assessment various factors, including historical experience, the age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality our customers, current economic conditions, and other factors that may affect customers\' ability pay. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, which includes amounts recorded under capital leases, are stated cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets the remaining lease term, the case capital lease, whichever shorter. The estimated useful lives property and equipment are described below: Property and Equipment Useful Life Network equipment Three five years Buildings years Computer software, office equipment and other Three five years Leased equipment and leasehold improvements Lesser estimated useful life remaining lease term Land and assets held within construction progress are not depreciated. Construction progress related the construction development property and equipment that have not yet been placed service for their intended use. The cost maintenance and repairs expensed incurred. When assets are retired otherwise disposed , the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from their respective accounts, and any gain loss such sale disposal reflected income from operations. Lease Obligations lease office space, data centers, and equipment under non-cancelable capital and operating leases with various expiration dates through . Certain the operating lease agreements contain rent holidays, rent escalation provisions, and purchase options. Rent holidays and rent escalation provisions are considered determining the straight-line rent expense recorded over the lease term. The lease term begins the date initial possession the leased property for purposes recognizing lease expense straight-line basis over the term the lease. not assume renewals our determination the lease term unless the renewals are deemed reasonably assured lease inception. Loss Contingencies are involved various lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings that arise the ordinary course business. record liability when believe that both probable that loss has been incurred and the amount can reasonably estimated. Significant judgment required determine both probability and the estimated amount. review these provisions least quarterly and adjust these provisions accordingly reflect the impact negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice legal counsel, and updated information. Business Combinations allocate the fair value purchase consideration the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based their estimated fair values. The excess the fair value purchase consideration over the fair values these identifiable assets and liabilities recorded goodwill. Such valuations require management make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect intangible assets. During the measurement period, which one year from the acquisition date, may record adjustments the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset goodwill. Upon the conclusion the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded earnings. Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets evaluate the recoverability property and equipment and amortizable intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events circumstances indicate that the carrying amount such assets may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison the carrying amounts the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. such review indicates that the carrying amount property and equipment and intangible assets not recoverable, the carrying amount such assets reduced fair value. have not recorded any significant impairment charge during the years presented. review goodwill for impairment least annually more frequently events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying value goodwill may not recoverable. have elected first assess the qualitative factors determine whether more likely than not that the fair value our single reporting operating unit less than its carrying amount basis for determining whether necessary perform the two-step goodwill impairment under Accounting Standards Update (ASU) . - , Goodwill and Other (Topic ): Testing Goodwill for Impairment, issued the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). determine that more likely than not that its fair value less than its carrying amount, then the two-step goodwill impairment test performed. The first step, identifying potential impairment, compares the fair value the reporting unit with its carrying amount. the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, the second step would need performed; otherwise, further step required. The second step, measuring the impairment loss, compares the implied fair value the goodwill with the carrying amount the goodwill. Any excess the goodwill carrying amount over the applied fair value recognized impairment loss, and the carrying value goodwill written down fair value. December , , impairment goodwill has been identified. Acquired amortizable intangible assets, which are included goodwill and intangible assets, net, are amortized straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets. The estimated remaining useful lives for intangible assets range from less than one year years . addition the recoverability assessment, routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives property and equipment and amortizable intangible assets. reduce the estimated useful life assumption for any asset, the remaining unamortized balance would amortized depreciated over the revised estimated useful life. Deferred Revenue and Deposits Deferred revenue consists billings advance revenue recognition. Deposits relate unused virtual currency held our users. Once this virtual currency utilized user, approximately % this amount would then payable the developer and the balance would recognized revenue. Deferred revenue and deposits consists the following ( millions): December , Deferred revenue $ $ Deposits Total deferred revenue and deposits $ $ Foreign Currency Generally the functional currency our international subsidiaries the local currency. translate the financial statements these subsidiaries . dollars using month-end rates exchange for assets and liabilities, and average rates exchange for revenue, costs, and expenses. Translation gains and losses are recorded accumulated other comprehensive income component stockholders\' equity. Net losses resulting from foreign exchange transactions were $ million , $ million , and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. These losses were recorded other income (expense), net our consolidated statements income. Credit Risk and Concentration Financial instruments owned the company that are potentially subject concentrations credit risk consist primarily cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, marketable securities, accounts receivable, and derivative instruments. Cash equivalents consist short-term money market funds and . government and . government agency securities , which are managed reputable financial institutions. Marketable securities consist investments . government and . government agency securities . Our investment policy limits investment instruments . government and . government agency securities with the main objective preserving capital and maintaining liquidity. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenue earned from customers across different industries and countries. generated % , % , and % our revenue for the years ended December , , , and , respectively, from marketers and developers based the United States, with the majority revenue outside the United States coming from customers located western Europe, Canada, Australia, and Brazil. perform ongoing credit evaluations our customers, and generally not require collateral. maintain allowance for estimated credit losses. During the years ended December , , , and , our bad debt expenses were $ million , $ million , and $ million , respectively. the event that accounts receivable collection cycles deteriorate, our operating results and financial position could adversely affected. customer represented % more total revenue during the years ended December , and and one customer represented % total revenue for the year ended December , . Segments Our chief operating decision-maker our Chief Executive Officer who reviews financial information presented consolidated basis. There are segment managers who are held accountable the chief operating decision-maker, anyone else, for operations, operating results, and planning for levels components below the consolidated unit level. Accordingly, have determined that have single reporting segment and operating unit structure. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncement Comprehensive Income February , the FASB issued ASU . - , Comprehensive Income (Topic ): Reporting Amounts Reclassified Out Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (ASU - ), which effective prospectively for public companies for reporting periods beginning after December , . This new accounting standard improves the reporting reclassifications out accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) requiring entity report the effect significant reclassifications out AOCI the respective line items net income the amount being reclassified required under GAAP reclassified its entirety net income. For other amounts that are not required under GAAP reclassified their entirety net income the same reporting period, entity required cross-reference other disclosures required under GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. adopted this new guidance January , and the adoption did not have material effect our consolidated financial statements. Note . Acquisitions During the year ended December , , completed several business acquisitions for total consideration $ million , consisting approximately $ million cash and million vested shares our Class common stock which are not conditioned upon continuous employment. addition, issued approximately million shares Class common stock connection with such acquisitions, which are conditioned upon continuous employment. These shares have been excluded from purchase consideration and will recognized over the required service period share-based compensation expense. Pro forma results operations related our acquisitions during the year ended December , have not been presented because they are not material our consolidated statements income, either individually the aggregate. The following table summarizes the allocation estimated fair values the net assets acquired during the year ended December , , including the related estimated useful lives, where applicable: ( millions) Useful lives ( years) Amortizable intangible assets: Acquired technology $ - Tradename and other - Net liabilities assumed ( ) Deferred tax liabilities ( ) Net assets acquired $ Goodwill Total fair value considerations $ Goodwill generated from all business acquisitions completed during the year ended December , primarily attributable expected synergies from future growth and potential monetization opportunities and $ million this goodwill deductible for tax purposes. During the year ended December , , also acquired $ million patents and other intangible assets. Patents acquired during the year ended December , have estimated useful lives ranging from six years from the dates acquisition. Note . Earnings per Share compute earnings per share (EPS) Class and Class common stock using the two-class method required for participating securities. Prior the date our IPO May , considered all series our convertible preferred stock participating securities due their non-cumulative dividend rights. Immediately after the completion our IPO, all outstanding shares convertible preferred stock converted Class common stock. Additionally, consider restricted stock awards participating securities because holders such shares have non-forfeitable dividend rights the event our declaration dividend for common shares. Undistributed earnings allocated these participating securities are subtracted from net income determining net income attributable common stockholders. Basic EPS computed dividing net income attributable common stockholders the weighted-average number shares our Class and Class common stock outstanding, adjusted for outstanding shares that are subject repurchase. For the calculation diluted EPS, net income attributable common stockholders for basic EPS adjusted the effect dilutive securities, including awards under our equity compensation plans. addition, the computation the diluted EPS Class common stock assumes the conversion from Class common stock, while the diluted EPS Class common stock does not assume the conversion those shares Class common stock. Diluted EPS attributable common stockholders computed dividing the resulting net income attributable common stockholders the weighted-average number fully diluted common shares outstanding. Dilutive securities our diluted EPS calculation for the year ended December , not include Pre- RSUs. Vesting these RSUs dependent upon the satisfaction both service condition and liquidity condition. The liquidity condition satisfied upon the occurrence qualifying event, defined change control transaction six months following the completion our IPO. Our IPO did not occur until May . Therefore, prior this date the holders these RSUs had rights our undistributed earnings and accordingly, they are excluded from the effect basic and dilutive securities. However, subsequent the completion our IPO May , these RSUs are included our basic and diluted EPS calculation. Post- RSUs are not subject liquidity condition order vest, and are thus included the calculation diluted EPS. also excluded million , million , and million Post- RSUs for the years ended December , , , and , respectively, because the impact would anti-dilutive. Basic and diluted EPS are the same for each class common stock because they are entitled the same liquidation and dividend rights. The numerators and denominators the basic and diluted EPS computations for our common stock are calculated follows ( millions, except per share amounts): Year Ended December , Class Class Class Class Class Class Basic EPS: Numerator Net income $ , $ $ $ $ $ Less: Net income attributable participating securities Net income attributable common stockholders $ , $ $ $ $ $ Denominator Weighted average shares outstanding , , , Less: Shares subject repurchase — Number shares used for basic EPS computation , , , Basic EPS $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted EPS: Numerator Net income attributable common stockholders $ , $ $ $ $ $ Reallocation net income attributable participating securities — — — — Reallocation net income result conversion Class Class common stock — — — Reallocation net income Class common stock — — — Net income attributable common stockholders for diluted EPS $ , $ $ $ $ $ Denominator Number shares used for basic EPS computation , , , Conversion Class Class common stock — , — , — Weighted average effect dilutive securities: Employee stock options RSUs Shares subject repurchase Warrants — — — — Number shares used for diluted EPS computation , , , , , Diluted EPS $ $ $ $ $ $ Note . Cash and Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities The following table sets forth the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities for the periods presented ( millions): December , Cash and cash equivalents: Cash $ , $ , Money market funds , Total cash and cash equivalents , , Marketable securities: . government securities , , . government agency securities , , Total marketable securities , , Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , The gross unrealized gains losses our marketable securities December , and were not significant. addition, there were securities continuous loss position for months longer December , and . The following table classifies our marketable securities contractual maturities ( millions): December , Due one year $ , $ , Due one two years , , Total $ , $ , Note . Fair Value Measurement The following table summarizes, for assets liabilities measured fair value, the respective fair value and the classification level input within the fair value hierarchy ( millions): Fair Value Measurement Reporting Date Using Description December , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level ) Cash equivalents: Money market funds $ , $ , $ — $ — Marketable securities: . government securities , , — — . government agency securities , , — — Total cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ — $ — Fair Value Measurement Reporting Date Using Description December , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level Cash equivalents: Money market funds $ $ $ — $ — Marketable securities: . government securities , , — — . government agency securities , , — — Total cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ — $ — Other current liabilities: Contingent consideration liability $ $ — $ — $ Other liabilities: Derivative financial instrument $ $ — $ $ — Our Level derivative financial instrument December , represented our interest rate swap agreement which was valued based valuation model using significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. August , terminated our Level derivative financial instrument related our interest rate swap agreement. See Note these notes the consolidated financial statements for additional information with respect the termination our interest swap agreement. estimated the fair value our Level contingent consideration liability December , based the probability assessment earn-out criteria. developing these estimates, considered factors not observed the market and thus this represented Level measurement. Level instruments are valued based unobservable inputs that are supported little market activity and reflect our own assumptions measuring fair value. August , settled our Level contingent consideration liability. Note . Property and Equipment Property and equipment consists the following ( millions): December , Network equipment $ , $ , Land Buildings , Leasehold improvements Computer software, office equipment and other Construction progress Total , , Less: Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Depreciation expense property and equipment was $ million , $ million , and $ million during , , and , respectively. Property and equipment December , and includes $ million and $ billion , respectively, acquired under capital lease agreements which the majority included network equipment. Accumulated depreciation property and equipment acquired under these capital leases was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Construction progress includes costs primarily related the construction data centers Iowa and Sweden and network equipment infrastructure support our data centers around the world. Construction progress also includes the ongoing construction expand our corporate headquarters Menlo Park, California. Interest capitalized during the periods presented was not material. Note . Goodwill and Intangible Assets The changes carrying amount goodwill for the years ended December , and are follows ( millions): Balance December , $ Goodwill acquired Balance December , Goodwill acquired Balance December , $ Intangible assets consist the following ( millions): December , December , Useful lives from date acquisitions ( years) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Amortizable intangible assets: Acquired patents - $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Acquired technology - ( ) ( ) Tradename and other - ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Amortization expense intangible assets for the years ended December , , , and was $ million , $ million , and $ million , respectively. December , , expected amortization expense for the unamortized acquired intangible assets for the next five years and thereafter follows ( millions): $ Thereafter Total $ Note . Liabilities The components accrued expenses and other current liabilities are follows ( millions): December , Accrued property and equipment $ $ Accrued compensation and benefits Other current liabilities Accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ $ The components other liabilities are follows ( millions): December , Income tax payable $ $ Other liabilities Other liabilities $ , $ Note . Long-term Debt October , amended and restated our bridge credit facility, and converted into three -year unsecured term loan facility. The unsecured term loan allowed borrow $ billion with interest payable borrowed amount set LIBOR plus % , well annual commitment fee % the daily undrawn balance the facility. fully drew down this facility October and fully repaid the $ billion outstanding principal balance August . connection with our termination the unsecured term loan facility, also terminated our $ billion interest rate swap agreement which converted the one-month LIBOR rate the corresponding notional amount debt fixed interest rate hedge our exposure interest rate fluctuation. have reclassified all amounts related the interest rate swap AOCI interest expense. For the year ended December , , the amount AOCI reclassified interest expense was not material. The realized gain result the termination our interest rate swap was also not material. Concurrently, also terminated our unsecured five -year revolving credit facility that allowed borrow $ billion . had not drawn down this facility. August , connection with the termination these facilities, entered into five -year senior unsecured revolving credit facility ( Revolving Credit Facility) that allows borrow $ billion fund working capital and general corporate purposes with interest payable the borrowed amounts set LIBOR plus % , well annual commitment fee % the daily undrawn balance the facility. paid origination fees closing the Revolving Credit Facility, which fees are being amortized over the term the facility. Any amounts outstanding under this facility will due and payable August , . December , , amounts had been drawn down, and were compliance with the covenants under this facility. Note . Commitments and Contingencies Commitments Leases entered into various capital lease arrangements obtain property and equipment for our operations. Additionally, occasion have purchased property and equipment for which have subsequently obtained capital financing under sale-leaseback transactions. These agreements are typically for three years , except for building leases which are for years , with interest rates ranging from % % . The leases are secured the underlying leased buildings, leasehold improvements, and equipment. have also entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain our offices, equipment, land and data centers with original lease periods expiring between and . are committed pay portion the related actual operating expenses under certain these lease agreements. Certain these arrangements have free rent periods escalating rent payment provisions, and recognize rent expense under such arrangements straight-line basis. The following schedule, years, the future minimum lease payments required under non-cancelable capital and operating leases December , ( millions): Capital Leases Operating Leases $ $ Thereafter Total minimum lease payments $ $ Less: amount representing interest and taxes ( ) Less: current portion the present value minimum lease payments ( ) Capital lease obligations, net current portion $ Operating lease expenses totaled $ million , $ million , and $ million for the years ended December , , and , respectively. Other contractual commitments also have $ million non-cancelable contractual commitments December , , primarily related network infrastructure for our data center operations and, lesser extent, construction our data center sites. The majority these commitments are due within five years . Contingencies Legal Matters Beginning May , , multiple putative class actions, derivative actions, and individual actions were filed state and federal courts the United States and other jurisdictions against , our directors, and certain our officers alleging violation securities laws breach fiduciary duties connection with our IPO and seeking unspecified damages. believe these lawsuits are without merit, and intend continue vigorously defend them. October , , our motion, the vast majority the cases the United States, along with multiple cases filed against The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. and The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (collectively referred herein NASDAQ) alleging technical and other trading-related errors NASDAQ connection with our IPO, were ordered centralized for coordinated consolidated pre-trial proceedings the United States District Court for the Southern District New York. February , , the court granted our motion dismiss four derivative actions against our directors and certain our officers with leave amend. October , , the court heard argument our motion dismiss the consolidated securities class action, well our motion dismiss, and the plaintiffs\' motion remand state court, certain other derivative actions. December , , the court denied our motion dismiss the consolidated securities class action. December , , the court granted our motion dismiss, and denied the plaintiffs’ motion remand state court, certain other derivative actions. addition, the events surrounding our IPO have become the subject various government inquiries, and are cooperating with those inquiries. are also party various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. Among these pending legal matters, one case, Rembrandt Social Media, . Facebook, Inc., ., was scheduled begin trial December the . District Court for the Eastern District Virginia. this case, the plaintiff alleges that infringe certain patents held the plaintiff. The plaintiff seeking significant monetary damages and equitable relief. This trial date was vacated December and the case currently appeal. believe the claims made the plaintiff the Rembrandt case are without merit, and intend continue defend ourselves vigorously. With respect our outstanding legal matters, believe that the amount estimable range reasonably possible loss will not, either individually the aggregate, have material adverse effect our business, consolidated financial position, results operations, cash flows. However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Therefore, one more these legal matters were resolved against for amounts excess management\' expectations, our results operations and financial condition, including particular reporting period, could materially adversely affected. Indemnifications the normal course business, facilitate transactions services and products, have agreed indemnify certain parties with respect certain matters. have agreed hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from breach representations covenants, out intellectual property infringement other claims made third parties. These agreements may limit the time within which indemnification claim can made and the amount the claim. addition, have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers, directors, and certain employees, and our certificate incorporation and bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations. not possible determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each particular agreement. Historically, payments made under these agreements have not had material impact our consolidated financial position, results operations cash flows. our opinion, December , , there was not least reasonable possibility had incurred material loss with respect indemnification such parties. have not recorded any liability for costs related indemnification through December , . Note . Stockholders\' Equity Initial Public Offering May , completed our IPO which issued and sold , , shares Class common stock public offering price $ per share and the selling stockholders sold , , shares Class common stock. did not receive any proceeds from the sale shares the selling stockholders. The total net proceeds received from the IPO were $ billion after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions $ million and other offering expenses approximately $ million . Follow- Offering December , completed follow- offering which issued and sold , , shares Class common stock public offering price $ per share and the selling stockholders sold , , shares Class common stock. did not receive any proceeds from the sale shares the selling stockholders. The total net proceeds received from the follow- offering were $ billion after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions $ million and other offering expenses approximately $ million . Common Stock Our certificate incorporation authorizes the issuance Class common stock and Class common stock. December , , are authorized issue , , , shares Class common stock and , , , shares Class common stock, each with par value $ per share. Holders our Class common stock and Class common stock are entitled dividends when, and , declared our board directors, subject the rights the holders all classes stock outstanding having priority rights dividends. December , , did not declare any dividends and our credit facility contains restrictions our ability pay dividends. The holder each share Class common stock entitled one vote, while the holder each share Class common stock entitled ten votes. Shares our Class common stock are convertible into equivalent number shares our Class common stock and generally convert into shares our Class common stock upon transfer. Class common stock and Class common stock are referred common stock throughout the notes these financial statements, unless otherwise noted. December , , there were , , , shares and , , shares Class common stock and Class common stock, respectively, issued and outstanding. Share-based Compensation Plans maintain three share-based employee compensation plans: the Plan, the Stock Plan and the Officers\' Stock Plan (collectively, Stock Plans). Our Plan serves the successor our Stock Plan and provides for the issuance incentive and nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock awards, stock appreciation rights, RSUs, performance shares and stock bonuses qualified employees, directors and consultants. Outstanding awards under the Stock Plan continue subject the terms and conditions the Stock Plan. have initially reserved , , shares our Class common stock for issuance under our Plan. The number shares reserved for issuance under our Plan will increase automatically the first day January each through number shares Class common stock equal the lesser ( ) % the total outstanding shares our common stock the immediately preceding December 31st ( ) number shares determined the board directors. Our board directors elected not increase the number shares reserved for issuance . addition, shares available for grant under the Stock Plan, which were reserved but not issued subject outstanding awards under the Stock Plan the effective date our IPO, were added the reserves the Plan and shares that are withheld connection with the net settlement RSUs are also added the reserves the Plan. The maximum term for stock options granted under the Plan may not exceed ten years from the date grant. Our Plan will terminate ten years from the date approval unless terminated earlier our compensation committee. The Officers\' Stock Plan provides for , , shares incentive and nonstatutory stock options certain our employees officers. The Officers\' Stock Plan will terminate ten years after its adoption unless terminated earlier our compensation committee. Stock options become vested and exercisable such times and under such conditions determined our compensation committee the date grant. November , issued nonstatutory stock option our CEO purchase , , shares our Class common stock under the Officers\' Stock Plan. December , , this option was fully exercised and options were available for future issuance under the Officers\' Stock Plan. will not grant any additional awards under the Officers\' Stock Plan the future. The following table summarizes the stock option and RSU award activities under the Stock Plans for the year ended December , : Shares Subject Options Outstanding Number Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( ) ( thousands) ( years) ( millions) Balance December , , $ $ , Stock options exercised ( , ) Stock options forfeited cancelled ( ) Balance December , , $ $ , Stock options vested and expected vest December , , $ $ , Stock options exercisable December , , $ $ ( ) The aggregate intrinsic value calculated the difference between the exercise price the underlying stock option awards and the closing price our Class common stock $ December , . There were options granted for the years ended December , , , and . The aggregate intrinsic value the options exercised the years ended December , , , and was $ billion , $ billion and $ billion , respectively. The total grant date fair value stock options vested during the years ended December , , , and was $ million , $ million and $ million , respectively. The following table summarizes additional information regarding outstanding and exercisable options under the Stock Plans December , : Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Exercise Price (Range) Number Shares Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term Weighted Average Exercise Price Number Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price ( thousands) ( years) ( thousands) $ - $ $ - , , - , , , , , , , , , , , $ , $ The following table summarizes the activities for our unvested RSUs for the year ended December , : Unvested RSUs Number Shares Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value ( thousands) Unvested December , , $ Granted , Vested ( , ) Forfeited ( , ) Unvested December , , $ The fair value the respective vesting dates RSUs during the years ended December , , , and was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , respectively, including the Pre- RSUs earned but subject liquidity condition which was satisfied six months after our IPO. The majority our RSUs that were settled during the years ended December , and were net share settled. RSUs were settled the year ended December , . Under net settlement procedures applicable our outstanding RSUs prior December , , upon each settlement date, RSUs were withheld cover the required withholding tax, which based the value the RSU the settlement date determined the closing price our common stock the trading day immediately preceding the applicable settlement date. The remaining amounts are delivered the recipient shares our common stock. and , settled million and million RSUs, respectively, which million and million RSUs were net settled, respectively, withholding million and million shares, respectively, which represented the employees\' minimum statutory obligation for each such employee\' applicable income and other employment taxes and remitted cash $ million and $ billion , respectively, the appropriate tax authorities. The amount remitted the tax authorities for the employees\' tax obligation the tax authorities was reflected financing activity within our consolidated statements cash flows. These shares withheld result the net settlement RSUs are longer considered issued and outstanding, thereby reducing our shares outstanding used calculate earnings per share. These shares were returned the reserves and are available for future issuance under the Plan. December , , there was $ billion unrecognized share-based compensation expense, which $ billion related RSUs, and $ million related restricted shares and stock options. This unrecognized compensation expense expected recognized over weighted-average period approximately three years . Note . Other income (expense), net The following table presents the detail other income (expense), net, for the periods presented ( millions): Year Ended December , Interest income $ $ $ Foreign currency exchange losses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other Other income (expense), net $ $ $ ( ) Note . Income Taxes The components income before provision for income taxes for the years ended December , , , and are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Domestic $ , $ , $ , Foreign ( ) ( ) ( ) Income before provision for income taxes $ , $ $ , The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): Year Ended December , Current: Federal $ , $ $ State Foreign Total current tax expense , Deferred: Federal ( ) ( ) ( ) State ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign ( ) ( ) — Total deferred tax benefit ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ $ reconciliation the . federal statutory income tax rate % our effective tax rate follows ( percentages): Year Ended December , . federal statutory income tax rate % % % State income taxes, net federal benefit Research tax credits ( ) — ( ) Share-based compensation Effect non- . operations Other — Effective tax rate % % % Excess tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and other equity awards are credited stockholders\' equity. The income tax benefits resulting from stock awards that were credited stockholders\' equity were $ million , $ billion and $ million for the years ended December , , , and . Our deferred tax assets (liabilities) are follows ( millions): December , Deferred tax assets: Net operating loss carryforward $ $ Tax credit carryforward Share-based compensation Accrued expenses and other liabilities Other Total deferred tax assets Less: valuation allowance ( ) ( ) Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Purchased intangible assets ( ) ( ) Deferred foreign taxes ( ) ( ) Total deferred tax liabilities ( ) ( ) Net deferred tax assets $ $ The valuation allowance was approximately $ million and $ million December , and , respectively, related state tax credits that not believe will ultimately realized. December , , the . federal and state net operating loss carryforwards were approximately $ billion and $ billion , which will begin expire and , respectively, not utilized. realized, the impact the net operating loss carryforwards will recognized benefit approximately $ billion through additional paid capital. have federal and state tax credit carryforwards $ million and $ million , respectively, which will expire beginning . Utilization our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may subject substantial annual limitations due the ownership change limitations provided the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. Such annual limitations could result the expiration the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards before their utilization. The events that may cause ownership changes include, but are not limited , cumulative stock ownership change greater than % over three -year period. Our net foreign pretax losses include jurisdictions with both pretax earnings and pretax losses. Our consolidated financial statements provide taxes for all related tax liabilities that would arise upon repatriation earnings the foreign jurisdictions where not intend indefinitely reinvest those earnings outside the United States, and the amount taxes provided for has been insignificant. The following table reflects changes the gross unrecognized tax benefits ( millions): Year Ended December , Gross unrecognized tax benefits-beginning period $ $ $ Increases related prior year tax positions Decreases related prior year tax positions ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases related current year tax positions Gross unrecognized tax benefits-end period $ , $ $ During all years presented, recognized interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes the consolidated statements income. For the year ended December , , recognized interest $ million and reversal for penalties $ million . The amount interest and penalties accrued December , , , and was $ million , $ million , and $ million , respectively. the remaining balance gross unrecognized tax benefits $ billion December , was realized future period, this would result tax benefit $ million within our provision income taxes such time. are subject taxation the United States and various other state and foreign jurisdictions. The material jurisdictions which are subject potential examination include the United States and Ireland. are under examination the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for our through tax years. believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations and not anticipate significant impact our gross unrecognized tax benefits within the next months related these years. Our through tax years remain subject examination the IRS and all tax years starting remain subject examination Ireland. Although the timing the resolution, settlement, and closure any audits highly uncertain, reasonably possible that the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change the next months. However, given the number years remaining that are subject examination, are unable estimate the full range possible adjustments the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits. Note . Geographical Information Revenue geography based the billing address the advertiser developer. The following table sets forth revenue and property and equipment, net geographic area ( millions): Year Ended December , Revenue: United States $ , $ , $ , Rest the world ( ) , , , Total revenue $ , $ , $ , ( ) individual country, other than disclosed above, exceeded % our total revenue for any period presented December , Property and equipment, net: United States $ , $ , Sweden Rest the world Total property and equipment, net $ , $ , ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': "Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Our management, with the participation our chief executive officer (CEO) and chief financial officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act)), the end the period covered this Annual Report Form - . Based such evaluation, our CEO and CFO have concluded that December , , our disclosure controls and procedures are designed reasonable assurance level and are effective provide reasonable assurance that information are required disclose reports that file submit under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified the rules and forms the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and that such information accumulated and communicated our management, including our CEO and CFO, appropriate, allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management' Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted assessment the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework). Based the assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective December , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report with respect our internal control over financial reporting, which appears Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . Changes Internal Control There were changes our internal control over financial reporting identified management' evaluation pursuant Rules 13a- ( ) 15d- ( ) the Exchange Act during the fourth quarter that materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations Effectiveness Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial Reporting designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance achieving the desired control objectives. addition, the design disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management required apply judgment evaluating the benefits possible controls and procedures relative their costs. ", 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information None. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) within days the fiscal year ended December , . Our board directors has adopted Code Conduct applicable all officers, directors and employees, which available our website (investor com) under "Corporate Governance." intend satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item Form - regarding amendment , waiver from, provision our Code Conduct and posting such information our website the address and location specified above. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accounting Fees and Services The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules have filed the following documents part this Form - : . Consolidated Financial Statements: Page . . Financial Statement Schedules All schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, the required information otherwise included. . Exhibits See the Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page this Annual Report Form - . ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}