{'item 1. ': 'Business This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based expectations, estimates, and projections the date this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See Item Part —“Risk Factors.” Amazon com, Inc. was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated the state Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. completed our initial public offering May and our common stock listed the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.” used herein, “Amazon com,” “ ,” “our,” and similar terms include Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. General Amazon com opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July . seek Earth’ most customer-centric company. are guided four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment operational excellence, and long-term thinking. each our segments, serve our primary customer sets, consisting consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. addition, provide services, such advertising services and -branded credit card agreements. have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and Amazon Web Services (“AWS”). These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. Additional information our operating segments and our net sales contained Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Segment Information.” Our company-sponsored research and development expense set forth within “Technology and content” Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Consolidated Statements Operations.” The financial results Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included our consolidated financial statements from the date acquisition August , . Consumers serve consumers through our retail websites and physical stores and focus selection, price, and convenience. design our websites enable hundreds millions unique products sold and third parties across dozens product categories. Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, and physically visiting our stores. also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle -readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, and Echo devices, and develop and produce media content. strive offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, and improve our operating efficiencies that can continue lower prices for our customers. also provide easy- -use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. addition, offer Amazon Prime, membership program that includes unlimited free shipping tens millions items, access unlimited instant streaming thousands movies and episodes, and other benefits. fulfill customer orders number ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks that operate; -sourced and outsourced arrangements certain countries; digital delivery; and through our physical stores. operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented -sourced arrangements. See Item Part , “Properties.” Sellers offer programs that enable sellers grow their businesses, sell their products our websites and their own branded websites, and fulfill orders through . are not the seller record these transactions. earn fixed fees, percentage sales, per-unit activity fees, interest, some combination thereof, for our seller programs. Developers and Enterprises serve developers and enterprises all sizes, including start-ups, government agencies, and academic institutions, through our AWS segment, which offers broad set global compute, storage, database, and other service offerings. Content Creators serve authors and independent publishers with Kindle Direct Publishing, online service that lets independent authors and publishers choose % royalty option and make their books available the Kindle Store, along with Amazon’ own publishing arm, Amazon Publishing. also offer programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others publish and sell content. Competition Our businesses encompass large variety product types, service offerings, and delivery channels. The worldwide marketplace which compete evolving rapidly and intensely competitive, and face broad array competitors from many different industry sectors around the world. Our current and potential competitors include: ( ) online, offline, and multichannel retailers, publishers, vendors, distributors, manufacturers, and producers the products offer and sell consumers and businesses; ( ) publishers, producers, and distributors physical, digital, and interactive media all types and all distribution channels; ( ) web search engines, comparison shopping websites, social networks, web portals, and other online and app-based means discovering, using, acquiring goods and services, either directly collaboration with other retailers; ( ) companies that provide -commerce services, including website development, advertising, fulfillment, customer service, and payment processing; ( ) companies that provide fulfillment and logistics services for themselves for third parties, whether online offline; ( ) companies that provide information technology services products, including -premises cloud-based infrastructure and other services; and ( ) companies that design, manufacture, market, sell consumer electronics, telecommunication, and electronic devices. believe that the principal competitive factors our retail businesses include selection, price, and convenience, including fast and reliable fulfillment. Additional competitive factors for our seller and enterprise services include the quality, speed, and reliability our services and tools, well customers’ ability and willingness change business practices. Some our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, greater brand recognition, and greater control over inputs critical our various businesses. They may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing, pursue restrictive distribution agreements that restrict our access supply, direct consumers their own offerings instead ours, lock- potential customers with restrictive terms, and devote more resources technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Each our businesses also subject rapid change and the development new business models and the entry new and well-funded competitors. Other companies also may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others protect our proprietary rights. have registered, applied for the registration , number . and international domain names, trademarks, service marks, and copyrights. Additionally, have filed . and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our proprietary rights third parties. Seasonality Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December . recognized %, %, and % our annual revenue during the fourth quarter , , and . Fourth quarter results include revenue attributable Whole Foods Market, which acquired August , . Employees employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees December , . However, employment levels fluctuate due seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel supplement our workforce. have works councils, statutory employee representation obligations, and union agreements certain countries outside the United States and certain our studio operations within the United States. consider our employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel our industry has historically been intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. Available Information Our investor relations website www amazon com and encourage investors use way easily finding information about . promptly make available this website, free charge, the reports that file furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), corporate governance information (including our Code Business Conduct and Ethics), and select press releases and social media postings. Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors January , : Executive Officers the Registrant Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Jeffrey . Blackburn Senior Vice President, Business Development Andrew . Jassy CEO Amazon Web Services Brian . Olsavsky Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Shelley . Reynolds Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer Jeffrey . Wilke CEO Worldwide Consumer David . Zapolsky Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Jeffrey . Bezos. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President the Company from founding until June and again from October the present. Jeffrey . Blackburn. . Blackburn has served Senior Vice President, Business Development, since April . Andrew . Jassy. . Jassy has served CEO Amazon Web Services since April , and Senior Vice President, Amazon Web Services, from April until April . Brian . Olsavsky. . Olsavsky has served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June , Vice President, Finance for the Global Consumer Business from December June , and numerous financial leadership roles across Amazon with global responsibility since April . Shelley . Reynolds. . Reynolds has served Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer since April . Jeffrey . Wilke. . Wilke has served CEO Worldwide Consumer since April , Senior Vice President, Consumer Business, from February until April , and Senior Vice President, North America Retail, from January until February . David . Zapolsky. . Zapolsky has served Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since May , Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from September May , and Vice President and Associate General Counsel for Litigation and Regulatory matters from April until September . Board Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Tom . Alberg Managing Director, Madrona Venture Group John Seely Brown Visiting Scholar and Advisor the Provost, University Southern California Jamie . Gorelick Partner, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP Daniel . Huttenlocher Dean and Vice Provost, Cornell Tech Cornell University Judith . McGrath President, Astronauts Wanted * experience necessary Jonathan . Rubinstein Former -CEO, Bridgewater Associates, Thomas . Ryder Retired, Former Chairman, Reader’ Digest Association, Inc. Patricia . Stonesifer President and Chief Executive Officer, Martha’ Table Wendell . Weeks Chief Executive Officer, Corning Incorporated ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following risk factors. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could materially adversely affected. addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many these risks. Face Intense Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and have many competitors different industries, including retail, -commerce services, digital content and electronic devices, and web and infrastructure computing services. Some our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition, particularly with our newly-launched products and services and our newer geographic regions. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Competition may intensify, including with the development new business models and the entry new and well-funded competitors, and our competitors enter into business combinations alliances and established companies other market segments expand become competitive with our business. addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices, may increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, and increased competition may reduce our sales and profits. Our Expansion Places Significant Strain our Management, Operational, Financial, and Other Resources are rapidly and significantly expanding our global operations, including increasing our product and service offerings and scaling our infrastructure support our retail and services businesses. This expansion increases the complexity our business and places significant strain our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. may not able manage growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies, and Geographic Regions Subjects Additional Business, Legal, Financial, and Competitive Risks may have limited experience our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our new offerings. These offerings may present new and difficult technology challenges, and may subject claims customers these offerings experience service disruptions failures other quality issues. addition, profitability, any, our newer activities may lower than our older activities, and may not successful enough these newer activities recoup our investments them. any this were occur, could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. May Experience Significant Fluctuations Our Operating Results and Growth Rate may not able accurately forecast our growth rate. base our expense levels and investment plans sales estimates. significant portion our expenses and investments fixed, and may not able adjust our spending quickly enough our sales are less than expected. Our revenue growth may not sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends the continued growth demand for the products and services offered our sellers, and our business affected general economic and business conditions worldwide. softening demand, whether caused changes customer preferences weakening the . global economies, may result decreased revenue growth. Our sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due risks described elsewhere this section and the following: • our ability retain and increase sales existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers’ demands; • our ability retain and expand our network sellers; • our ability offer products favorable terms, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; • the introduction competitive websites, products, services, price decreases, improvements; • changes usage adoption rates the Internet, -commerce, electronic devices, and web services, including outside the .; • timing, effectiveness, and costs expansion and upgrades our systems and infrastructure; • the success our geographic, service, and product line expansions; • the extent which finance, and the terms any such financing for, our current operations and future growth; • the outcomes legal proceedings and claims, which may include significant monetary damages injunctive relief and could have material adverse impact our operating results; • variations the mix products and services sell; • variations our level merchandise and vendor returns; • the extent which offer free shipping, continue reduce prices worldwide, and provide additional benefits our customers; • the extent which invest technology and content, fulfillment, and other expense categories; • increases the prices fuel and gasoline, well increases the prices other energy products and commodities like paper and packing supplies; • the extent which our equity-method investees record significant operating and non-operating items; • the extent which operators the networks between our customers and our websites successfully charge fees grant our customers unimpaired and unconstrained access our online services; • our ability collect amounts owed when they become due; • the extent which use our services affected spyware, viruses, phishing and other spam emails, denial service attacks, data theft, computer intrusions, outages, and similar events; and • terrorist attacks and armed hostilities. Our International Operations Expose Number Risks Our international activities are significant our revenues and profits, and plan further expand internationally. certain international market segments, have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages otherwise succeed. costly establish, develop, and maintain international operations and websites, and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not profitable sustained basis. addition risks described elsewhere this section, our international sales and operations are subject number risks, including: • local economic and political conditions; • government regulation -commerce and other services, electronic devices, and competition, and restrictive governmental actions (such trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs), nationalization, and restrictions foreign ownership; • restrictions sales distribution certain products services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services, and content, including uncertainty result less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution media products and enforcement intellectual property rights; • business licensing certification requirements, such for imports, exports, web services, and electronic devices; • limitations the repatriation and investment funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; • limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure; • shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact cash flow; • laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, privacy, network security, encryption, payments, and restrictions pricing discounts; • lower levels use the Internet; • lower levels consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared the .; • lower levels credit card usage and increased payment risk; • difficulty staffing, developing, and managing foreign operations result distance, language, and cultural differences; • different employee employer relationships and the existence works councils and labor unions; • compliance with the . Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable . and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments government officials and other third parties; • laws and policies the . and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and • geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. international -commerce and other online and web services grow, competition will intensify. Local companies may have substantial competitive advantage because their greater understanding , and focus , the local customer, well their more established local brand names. may not able hire, train, retain, and manage required personnel, which may limit our international growth. The People’ Republic China (“PRC”) and India regulate Amazon’ and its affiliates’ businesses and operations country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict ( ) foreign investment and operation the Internet, infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, ( ) Internet content, and (iii) the sale media and other products and services. For example, order meet local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, www amazon operated PRC companies that are indirectly owned, either wholly partially, PRC nationals. addition, provide certain technology services China conjunction with third parties that hold PRC licenses provide services. India, the government restricts the ownership control Indian companies foreign entities involved online multi-brand retail trading activities. For www amazon , provide certain marketing tools and logistics services third-party sellers enable them sell online and deliver customers, and hold indirect minority interests entities that are third-party sellers the www amazon marketplace. Although believe these structures and activities comply with existing laws, they involve unique risks, and the PRC actively considering changes its foreign investment rules that could impact these structures and activities. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation PRC and Indian laws and regulations, and possible that these governments will ultimately take view contrary ours. addition, our Chinese and Indian businesses and operations may unable continue operate our affiliates are unable access sufficient funding China enforce contractual relationships with respect management and control such businesses. our international activities were found violation any existing future PRC, Indian other laws regulations interpretations those laws and regulations were change, our businesses those countries could subject fines and other financial penalties, have licenses revoked, forced shut down entirely. Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Network and Data Centers, Our Business Could Harmed not adequately predict customer demand otherwise optimize and operate our fulfillment network and data centers successfully, could result excess insufficient fulfillment data center capacity, result increased costs, impairment charges, both, harm our business other ways. continue add fulfillment and data center capability add new businesses with different requirements, our fulfillment and data center networks become increasingly complex and operating them becomes more challenging. There can assurance that will able operate our networks effectively. addition, failure optimize inventory our fulfillment network will increase our net shipping cost requiring long-zone partial shipments. and our -sourcers may unable adequately staff our fulfillment network and customer service centers. the other businesses whose behalf perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product our fulfillment centers excess forecasts, may unable secure sufficient storage space and may unable optimize our fulfillment network. rely limited number shipping companies deliver inventory and completed orders our customers. are not able negotiate acceptable terms with these companies they experience performance problems other difficulties, could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. addition, our ability receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders customers also may negatively affected inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts war terrorism, acts God, and similar factors. Under some our commercial agreements, maintain the inventory other companies, thereby increasing the complexity tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment network. Our failure properly handle such inventory the inability these other companies accurately forecast product demand would result unexpected costs and other harm our business and reputation. The Seasonality Our Business Places Increased Strain Our Operations expect disproportionate amount our net sales occur during our fourth quarter. not stock restock popular products sufficient amounts such that fail meet customer demand, could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory markdowns write-offs and incur commitment costs, which could reduce profitability. may experience increase our net shipping cost due complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. too many customers access our websites within short period time due increased holiday demand, may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. addition, may unable adequately staff our fulfillment network and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service -sourcers may unable meet the seasonal demand. also face risks described elsewhere this Item relating fulfillment network optimization and inventory. generally have payment terms with our retail vendors that extend beyond the amount time necessary collect proceeds from our consumer customers. result holiday sales, December each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than result cash flows provided used investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results corresponding increase accounts payable December . Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months the year, resulting corresponding decline our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships provide -commerce and other services businesses through commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and business relationships. Under these agreements, provide web services, technology, fulfillment, computing, digital storage, and other services, well enable sellers offer products services through our websites. These arrangements are complex and require substantial infrastructure capacity, personnel, and other resource commitments, which may limit the amount business can service. may not able implement, maintain, and develop the components these commercial relationships, which may include web services, fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, hardware, content, and third-party software, and engaging third parties perform services. The amount compensation receive under certain our commercial agreements partially dependent the volume the other company’ sales. Therefore, the other company’ offering not successful, the compensation receive may lower than expected the agreement may terminated. Moreover, may not able enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances favorable terms. also may subject claims from businesses which provide these services are unsuccessful implementing, maintaining, developing these services. our agreements terminate, may unable renew replace these agreements comparable terms, all. may the future enter into amendments less favorable terms encounter parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations , which could adversely affect our operating results. Our present and future -commerce services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such : • disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; • impairment other relationships; • variability revenue and income from entering into, amending, terminating such agreements relationships; and • difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments have acquired and invested number companies, and may acquire invest enter into joint ventures with additional companies. These transactions (such our acquisition Whole Foods Market, Inc.) create risks such : • disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; • problems retaining key personnel; • additional operating losses and expenses the businesses acquired which invested; • the potential impairment tangible and intangible assets and goodwill, including result acquisitions; • the potential impairment customer and other relationships the company acquired which invested our own customers result any integration operations; • the difficulty completing such transactions and achieving anticipated benefits within expected timeframes, all; • the difficulty incorporating acquired operations, technology, and rights into our offerings, and unanticipated expenses related such integration; • the difficulty integrating new company’ accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource, and other administrative systems permit effective management, and the lack control such integration delayed not implemented; • for investments which investee’ financial performance incorporated into our financial results, either full part, the dependence the investee’ accounting, financial reporting, and similar systems, controls, and processes; • the difficulty implementing companies acquire the controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for larger public company; • the risks associated with businesses acquire invest , which may differ from more significant than the risks our other businesses face; • potential unknown liabilities associated with company acquire which invest; and • for foreign transactions, additional risks related the integration operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. result future acquisitions mergers, might need issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related intangible assets, any which could reduce our profitability and harm our business only available unfavorable terms, all. addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions and strategic investments could change rapidly given the current global economic climate. could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments other-than-temporary declines fair value which could adversely impact our financial results. Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our international websites and product and service offerings are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. have expanded our international operations, our exposure exchange rate fluctuations has increased. also hold cash equivalents and marketable securities foreign currencies including British Pounds, Euros, and Japanese Yen. the . Dollar strengthens compared these currencies, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, when translated, may materially less than expected and vice versa. The Loss Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business depend our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, CEO, and Chairman. not have “key person” life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. Could Harmed Data Loss Other Security Breaches result our services being web-based and the fact that process, store, and transmit large amounts data, including personal information, for our customers, failure prevent mitigate data loss other security breaches, including breaches our vendors’ technology and systems, could expose our customers risk loss misuse such information, adversely affect our operating results, result litigation potential liability for , and otherwise harm our business. use third-party technology and systems for variety reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery customers, back-office support, and other functions. Some subsidiaries had past security breaches, and, although they did not have material adverse effect our operating results, there can assurance similar result the future. Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed reduce the impact security breach third-party vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Face Risks Related System Interruption and Lack Redundancy experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites and services unavailable slow respond and prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders providing services third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness our products and services. are unable continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and take other steps improve the efficiency our systems, could cause system interruptions delays and adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and communications systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts war terrorism, acts God, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, and similar events disruptions. Any these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss critical data, and could prevent from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product and service offerings less attractive and subject liability. Our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not sufficient. addition, may have inadequate insurance coverage compensate for any related losses. Any these events could damage our reputation and expensive remedy. Face Significant Inventory Risk addition risks described elsewhere this Item relating fulfillment network and inventory optimization and third parties, are exposed significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes consumer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes consumer tastes with respect our products, spoilage, and other factors. endeavor accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking understocking products manufacture and sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory components are ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling manufacturing new product, may difficult establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition certain types inventory components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels certain products, such consumer electronics, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. Any one the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. May Not Able Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights May Accused Infringing Intellectual Property Rights Third Parties regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, and others protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available. also may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon, diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. may not able discover determine the extent any unauthorized use our proprietary rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps take protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights prevent third parties from infringing misappropriating our proprietary rights. also cannot certain that others will not independently develop otherwise acquire equivalent superior technology other intellectual property rights. Other parties also may claim that infringe their proprietary rights. have been subject , and expect continue subject , claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement the intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against , the payment damages, including satisfy indemnification obligations. may need obtain licenses from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not available terms acceptable all. addition, may not able obtain utilize terms that are favorable , all, licenses other rights with respect intellectual property not own. These risks have been amplified the increase third parties whose sole primary business assert such claims. Our digital content offerings depend part effective digital rights management technology control access digital content. the digital rights management technology that use compromised otherwise malfunctions, could subject claims, and content providers may unwilling include their content our service. Have Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Highly Volatile have rapidly evolving business model. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly response , among other risks, the risks described elsewhere this Item , well : • changes interest rates; • conditions trends the Internet and the industry segments operate ; • quarterly variations operating results; • fluctuations the stock market general and market prices for Internet-related companies particular; • changes financial estimates securities analysts and recommendations securities analysts; • changes our capital structure, including issuance additional debt equity the public; • changes the valuation methodology , performance , other -commerce technology companies; and • transactions our common stock major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. Volatility our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities and force increase our cash compensation employees grant larger stock awards than have historically, which could hurt our operating results reduce the percentage ownership our existing stockholders, both. Government Regulation Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business are subject general business regulations and laws, well regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, -commerce, electronic devices, and other services. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede our growth. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, transportation, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste, energy consumption, environmental regulation, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, consumer protection, employment, trade and protectionist measures, web services, the provision online payment services, information reporting requirements, unencumbered Internet access our services access our facilities, the design and operation websites, health and sanitation standards, the characteristics and quality products and services, product labeling, and the commercial operation unmanned aircraft systems. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, libel, and personal privacy apply the Internet, -commerce, digital content, and web services. Jurisdictions may regulate consumer- -consumer online businesses, including certain aspects our seller programs. Unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the demand for, availability , our products and services and increase our cost doing business. Could Subject Additional Sales Tax Other Tax Liabilities increasing number states and foreign jurisdictions have considered adopted laws administrative practices, with without notice, that impose new taxes all portion gross revenue other similar amounts impose additional obligations remote sellers and online marketplaces collect transaction taxes such sales, consumption, value added, similar taxes. may not have sufficient lead time build systems and processes collect these taxes properly, all. Failure comply with such laws administrative practices, successful assertion such states foreign jurisdictions requiring collect taxes where not, could result substantial tax liabilities, including for past sales, well penalties and interest. addition, the tax authorities jurisdictions where are already subject sales tax other indirect tax obligations were successfully challenge our positions, our tax liability could increase substantially. the ., although Supreme Court decisions restrict states’ rights require remote sellers collect state and local sales taxes, the Supreme Court has recently agreed hear case that could overturn prior precedent. support federal law that would allow states require sales tax collection remote sellers under nationwide system. are also subject . (federal and state) and foreign laws, regulations, and administrative practices that require collect information from our customers, vendors, merchants, and other third parties for tax reporting purposes and report such information various government agencies. The scope such requirements continues expand, requiring develop and implement new compliance systems. Failure comply with such laws and regulations could result significant penalties. Could Subject Additional Income Tax Liabilities are subject income taxes the . (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices various jurisdictions may subject significant change, with without notice, due economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment required evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course business for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. Our effective tax rates could affected numerous factors, such intercompany transactions, the relative amount our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated jurisdictions where have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated jurisdictions where have higher statutory rates, the applicability special tax regimes, losses incurred jurisdictions for which are not able realize the related tax benefit, changes foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies, changes our existing businesses and operations, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments and how they are financed, changes our stock price, changes our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations. addition, number countries are actively pursuing changes their tax laws applicable corporate multinationals, such the recently enacted . tax reform legislation commonly referred the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “ Tax Act”). Finally, foreign governments may enact tax laws response the Tax Act that could result further changes global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results operations. The Tax Act significantly changes how the . taxes corporations. The Tax Act requires complex computations performed that were not previously required . tax law, significant judgments made interpretation the provisions the Tax Act and significant estimates calculations, and the preparation and analysis information not previously relevant regularly produced. The . Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret issue guidance how provisions the Tax Act will applied otherwise administered that different from our interpretation. complete our analysis the Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, may make adjustments provisional amounts that have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes the period which the adjustments are made. are also currently subject audit various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against . Developments audit, litigation, the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have material effect our operating results cash flows the period periods for which that development occurs, well for prior and subsequent periods. For instance, have received Notices Proposed Adjustment (“NOPAs”) from the IRS for transactions undertaken the and calendar years relating transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries and have been contesting the matter . Tax Court. March , , the . Tax Court issued its decision regarding the issues raised the IRS NOPAs. The Tax Court rejected the approach from the IRS NOPAs determining transfer pricing adjustments and for the transactions undertaken with our foreign subsidiaries and adopted, with adjustments, our suggested approach. September , , the IRS filed notice appeal the . Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. will continue defend ourselves vigorously this matter. the Tax Court decision were reversed appeal the IRS were successfully assert transfer pricing adjustments similar nature the NOPAs for transactions subsequent years, could subject significant additional tax liabilities. addition, October , the European Commission opened formal investigation examine whether decisions the tax authorities Luxembourg with regard the corporate income tax paid certain our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules state aid. October , , the European Commission announced its decision that determinations the tax authorities Luxembourg did not comply with European Union rules state aid. This decision orders Luxembourg calculate and recover additional taxes from for the period May through June . believe this decision without merit and will consider our legal options, including appeal. December , Luxembourg appealed the European Commission’ decision. While the European Commission announced estimated recovery amount approximately € million, plus interest, the actual amount additional taxes subject recovery calculated the Luxembourg tax authorities accordance with the European Commission’ guidance. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Our Supplier Relationships Subject Number Risks have significant suppliers, including licensors, and some cases, limited single-sources supply, that are important our sourcing, services, manufacturing, and any related ongoing servicing merchandise and content. not have long-term arrangements with most our suppliers guarantee availability merchandise, content, components, services, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. our current suppliers were stop selling licensing merchandise, content, components, services acceptable terms, delay delivery, including result one more supplier bankruptcies due poor economic conditions, result natural disasters, for other reasons, may unable procure alternatives from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms, all. addition, our suppliers other vendors violate applicable laws, regulations, our code standards and responsibilities, implement practices regarded unethical, unsafe, hazardous the environment, could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. May Subject Risks Related Government Contracts and Related Procurement Regulations Our contracts with ., well state, local, and foreign, government entities are subject various procurement regulations and other requirements relating their formation, administration, and performance. may subject audits and investigations relating our government contracts, and any violations could result various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination contract, refunding suspending payments, forfeiture profits, payment fines, and suspension debarment from future government business. addition, such contracts may provide for termination the government any time, without cause. May Subject Product Liability Claims People Property Are Harmed the Products Sell Manufacture Some the products sell manufacture may expose product liability food safety claims relating personal injury illness, death, environmental property damage, and may require product recalls other actions. Certain third parties also sell products using our -commerce services that may increase our exposure product liability claims, such these sellers not have sufficient protection from such claims. Although maintain liability insurance, cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our agreements with our vendors and sellers not indemnify from product liability. Are Subject Payments-Related Risks accept payments using variety methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts (including promotional financing), gift cards, direct debit from customer’ bank account, consumer invoicing, physical bank check, and payment upon delivery. For existing and future payment options offer our customers, may become subject additional regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations implement enhanced authentication processes that could result significant costs and reduce the ease use our payments products), well fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. rely third parties provide certain Amazon-branded payment methods and payment processing services, including the processing credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing. each case, could disrupt our business these companies become unwilling unable provide these services . also offer -branded credit card programs, which could adversely affect our operating results terminated. are also subject payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change reinterpreted make difficult impossible for comply. fail comply with these rules requirements, our data security systems are breached compromised, may liable for card issuing banks’ costs, subject fines and higher transaction fees, and lose our ability accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, facilitate other types online payments, and our business and operating results could adversely affected. addition, provide regulated services certain jurisdictions because enable customers keep account balances with and transfer money third parties, and because provide services third parties facilitate payments their behalf. these jurisdictions, may subject requirements for licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding and capital maintenance, the use, handling, and segregation transferred funds, consumer disclosures, and authentication. are also subject voluntarily comply with number other laws and regulations relating payments, money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security, and electronic fund transfers. were found violation applicable laws regulations, could subject additional requirements and civil and criminal penalties, forced cease providing certain services. Could Liable for Fraudulent Unlawful Activities Sellers The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. addition, governmental agencies could require changes the way this business conducted. Under our seller programs, may unable prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered when the products received are materially different from the sellers’ descriptions. Under our A2Z Guarantee, reimburse buyers for payments certain limits these situations, and our third-party seller sales grow, the cost this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. also may unable prevent sellers our sites through other seller sites from selling unlawful goods, selling goods unlawful manner, violating the proprietary rights others, and could face civil criminal liability for unlawful activities our sellers. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties December , , operated the following facilities ( thousands): Description Use Leased Square Footage ( ) Owned Square Footage Location Office space , , North America Office space , — International Physical stores ( ) , North America Physical stores ( ) — International Fulfillment, data centers, and other , , North America Fulfillment, data centers, and other , , International Total , , ___________________ ( ) For leased properties, represents the total leased space excluding sub-leased space. ( ) This includes North America and International open Whole Foods Market stores December , . Segment Leased Square Footage ( ) Owned Square Footage ( ) North America , , International , , AWS , , Total , , ___________________ ( ) Segment amounts exclude corporate facilities. Shared facilities are allocated among the segments based usage and primarily relate facilities that hold our technology infrastructure. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Segment Information.” own and lease our corporate headquarters Seattle, Washington. Additionally, own and lease corporate office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, warehouse operations, data center, customer service, physical stores, and other facilities, principally North America, Europe, and Asia. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” ', 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant’ Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.” The following table sets forth the high and low per share sale prices for our common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq Global Select Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter , Third Quarter , Fourth Quarter , Holders January , , there were , shareholders record our common stock, although there much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. See Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases Equity Securities None. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. Year Ended December , ( ) ( millions, except per share data) Statements Operations: Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ $ , $ , Basic earnings per share ( ) $ $ ( ) $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share ( ) $ $ ( ) $ $ $ Weighted-average shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted Statements Cash Flows: Net cash provided (used ) operating activities ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , December , ( millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total long-term obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) acquired Whole Foods Market August , . The results Whole Foods Market have been included our results operation from the date acquisition. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets” for additional information regarding this transaction. ( ) For further discussion earnings per share, see Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Description Business and Accounting Policies.” ( ) result the adoption new accounting guidance, retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements cash flows reclassify excess tax benefits $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million , , , and from financing activities operating activities. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Description Business and Accounting Policies — Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted” for additional information. ', 'item 7. ': "Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’ current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, fluctuations foreign exchange rates, changes global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate growth the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon com invests new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products and services sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, the extent which owe income other taxes, competition, management growth, potential fluctuations operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks inventory management, seasonality, the degree which enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks fulfillment throughput and productivity. addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many these risks. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management’ expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , “Risk Factors.” Overview Our primary source revenue the sale wide range products and services customers . The products offered through our consumer-facing websites and physical stores primarily include merchandise and content have purchased for resale from vendors and products offered third-party sellers, and also manufacture and sell electronic devices. Generally, recognize gross revenue from items sell from our inventory product sales and recognize our net share revenue items sold third-party sellers service sales. seek increase unit sales across our businesses, through increased product selection, across numerous product categories. also offer other services such compute, storage, and database offerings, fulfillment, publishing, certain digital content subscriptions, advertising, and -branded credit cards. Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flows . Free cash flows are driven primarily increasing operating income and efficiently managing working capital and cash capital expenditures, including our decision purchase lease property and equipment. Increases operating income primarily result from increases sales products and services and efficiently managing our operating costs, partially offset investments make longer-term strategic initiatives. increase sales products and services, focus improving all aspects the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, increasing product categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease use, improving reliability, and earning customer trust. seek reduce our variable costs per unit and work leverage our fixed costs. Our variable costs include product and content costs, payment processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, costs necessary run AWS, and portion our marketing costs. Our fixed costs include the costs necessary build and run our technology infrastructure; build, enhance, and add features our websites and web services, our electronic devices, and digital offerings; and build and optimize our fulfillment centers and physical stores. Variable costs generally change directly with sales volume, while fixed costs generally are dependent the timing capacity needs, geographic expansion, category expansion, and other factors. decrease our variable costs per unit basis and enable lower prices for customers, seek increase our direct sourcing, increase discounts from suppliers, and reduce defects our processes. minimize growth fixed costs, seek improve process efficiencies and maintain lean culture. _______________________ ( ) See “Results Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for additional information our non-GAAP free cash flows financial measures. ( ) Working capital consists accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable. Because our model are able turn our inventory quickly and have cash-generating operating cycle . average, our high inventory velocity means generally collect from consumers before our payments suppliers come due. expect variability inventory turnover over time since affected numerous factors, including our product mix, the mix sales and third-party sellers, our continuing focus -stock inventory availability and selection product offerings, our investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent which choose utilize third-party fulfillment providers. also expect some variability accounts payable days over time since they are affected several factors, including the mix product sales, the mix sales third-party sellers, the mix suppliers, seasonality, and changes payment terms over time, including the effect balancing pricing and timing payment terms with suppliers. expect spending technology and content will increase over time add computer scientists, designers, software and hardware engineers, and merchandising employees. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support variety product and service offerings due geographic expansion and the cross-functionality our systems and operations. seek invest efficiently several areas technology and content, including AWS, and expansion new and existing product categories and service offerings, well technology infrastructure enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiencies. believe that advances technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost processing power and the advances wireless connectivity, will continue improve the consumer experience the Internet and increase its ubiquity people’ lives. best take advantage these continued advances technology, are investing initiatives build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices. are also investing AWS, which offers broad set global compute, storage, database, and other service offerings developers and enterprises all sizes. seek efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility issue shares for strategic purposes, such financings, acquisitions, and aligning employee compensation with shareholders’ interests. utilize restricted stock units our primary vehicle for equity compensation because believe this compensation model aligns the long-term interests our shareholders and employees. measuring shareholder dilution, include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, without regard estimated forfeitures. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were million and million December , and . Our financial reporting currency the . Dollar and changes foreign exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends . For example, the . Dollar weakens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will higher than currencies had remained constant. Likewise, the . Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will lower than currencies had remained constant. believe that our increasing diversification beyond the . economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders over the long-term. also believe useful evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect currency changes. addition, the remeasurement our intercompany balances can result significant gains and losses associated with the effect movements foreign currency exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact (either positively negatively) our reported results and consolidated trends and comparisons. For additional information about each line item summarized above, refer Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Description Business and Accounting Policies.” _______________________ ( ) The operating cycle the number days sales inventory plus the number days sales accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company’ critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company’ financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information, see Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Description Business and Accounting Policies.” Although believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first- first-out method, and are valued the lower cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition inventory are inherently uncertain and changes our estimates and assumptions may cause realize material write-downs the future. measure sensitivity, for every % additional inventory valuation allowance December , , would have recorded additional cost sales approximately $ million. addition, enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components and certain products offered our Whole Foods Market stores. These commitments are based forecasted customer demand. reduce these commitments, may incur additional costs. Income Taxes are subject income taxes the . (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices various jurisdictions may subject significant change, with without notice, due economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment required evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course business for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. Our effective tax rates could affected numerous factors, such intercompany transactions, the relative amount our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated jurisdictions where have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated jurisdictions where have higher statutory rates, the applicability special tax regimes, losses incurred jurisdictions for which are not able realize the related tax benefit, changes foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies, changes our existing businesses and operations, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments and how they are financed, changes our stock price, changes our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations. addition, number countries are actively pursuing changes their tax laws applicable corporate multinationals, such the recently enacted . tax reform legislation commonly referred the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “ Tax Act”). Finally, foreign governments may enact tax laws response the Tax Act that could result further changes global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results operations. The Tax Act significantly changes how the . taxes corporations. The Tax Act requires complex computations performed that were not previously required . tax law, significant judgments made interpretation the provisions the Tax Act and significant estimates calculations, and the preparation and analysis information not previously relevant regularly produced. The . Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret issue guidance how provisions the Tax Act will applied otherwise administered that different from our interpretation. complete our analysis the Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, may make adjustments provisional amounts that have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes the period which the adjustments are made. are also currently subject audit various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against . Developments audit, litigation, the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have material effect our operating results cash flows the period periods for which that development occurs, well for prior and subsequent periods. For instance, have received Notices Proposed Adjustment (“NOPAs”) from the IRS for transactions undertaken the and calendar years relating transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries and have been contesting the matter . Tax Court. March , , the . Tax Court issued its decision regarding the issues raised the IRS NOPAs. The Tax Court rejected the approach from the IRS NOPAs determining transfer pricing adjustments and for the transactions undertaken with our foreign subsidiaries and adopted, with adjustments, our suggested approach. September , , the IRS filed notice appeal the . Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. will continue defend ourselves vigorously this matter. the Tax Court decision were reversed appeal the IRS were successfully assert transfer pricing adjustments similar nature the NOPAs for transactions subsequent years, could subject significant additional tax liabilities. addition, October , the European Commission opened formal investigation examine whether decisions the tax authorities Luxembourg with regard the corporate income tax paid certain our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules state aid. October , , the European Commission announced its decision that determinations the tax authorities Luxembourg did not comply with European Union rules state aid. This decision orders Luxembourg calculate and recover additional taxes from for the period May through June . believe this decision without merit and will consider our legal options, including appeal. December , Luxembourg appealed the European Commission’ decision. While the European Commission announced estimated recovery amount approximately € million, plus interest, the actual amount additional taxes subject recovery calculated the Luxembourg tax authorities accordance with the European Commission’ guidance. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Description Business and Accounting Policies.” Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information, which reflects retrospective adjustments our consolidated statements cash flows described Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note — Description Business and Accounting Policies — Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted,” follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Cash provided (used ): Operating activities $ , $ , $ , Investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities ( , ) ( , ) , Our principal sources liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, fair value, were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion December , , , and . Amounts held foreign currencies were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , December , , , and , and were primarily Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. Cash provided (used ) operating activities was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, advertising agreements, and our -branded credit card agreements, offset cash payments make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related internal-use software that are reflected cash used investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards buy from , our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase operating cash flow , compared the comparable prior year period, was primarily due the increase net income, excluding non-cash charges such depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. The increase operating cash flow , compared the comparable prior year period, was primarily due the increase net income, excluding non-cash charges such depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Cash provided (used ) operating activities also subject changes working capital. Working capital any specific point time subject many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations foreign exchange rates. Cash provided (used ) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities marketable securities. Cash provided (used ) investing activities was $( ) billion , $( ) billion , and $( ) billion , , and , with the variability caused primarily cash paid for acquisitions, our decision purchase lease property and equipment, and purchases, maturities, and sales marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and , which primarily reflect additional capacity support our fulfillment operations and additional investments support continued business growth technology infrastructure (the majority which support AWS), during all three periods. Capital expenditures included $ million , $ million , and $ million for internal-use software and website development , , and . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. , , and , made cash payments, net acquired cash, related acquisition and other investment activity $ million , $ million , and $ billion . Cash provided (used ) financing activities was $( ) billion , $( ) billion , and $ billion , , and . Cash outflows from financing activities result from principal repayments obligations related capital leases and finance leases and repayments long-term debt and other. Principal repayments obligations related capital leases and finance leases and repayments long-term debt and other were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . Property and equipment acquired under capital leases were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and , with the increase reflecting investments support continued business growth primarily due investments technology infrastructure for AWS, which investments expect continue over time. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $ million , $ million , and $ billion , , and . During , cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily net proceeds from the issuance $ billion senior unsecured notes seven tranches maturing through . The proceeds from notes issued August (the “August Notes”) were used fund the consideration for the acquisition Whole Foods Market, repay the % Notes due November , and for general corporate purposes. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Long-Term Debt” for additional discussion the notes. had borrowings outstanding under our $ billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) and $ million borrowings outstanding under our $ million secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) December , . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Long-Term Debt” for additional information. , , and , recorded net tax provisions $ million , $ billion , and $ million . The Tax Act includes mandatory one-time tax accumulated earnings foreign subsidiaries, and result, all previously unremitted earnings for which . deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject . tax. Notwithstanding the . taxation these amounts, intend continue invest most all these earnings, well our capital these subsidiaries, indefinitely outside the . and not expect incur any significant, additional taxes related such amounts. December , , cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held foreign subsidiaries was $ billion. have tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized reduce our . taxable income. The Tax Act extended through and enhanced the option claim accelerated depreciation deductions qualifying property. Cash taxes paid (net refunds) were $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and . December , , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $ million and had approximately $ million federal tax credits potentially available offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related the . federal research and development credit. utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits expect cash paid for taxes increase. endeavor manage our global taxes cash basis, rather than financial reporting basis. connection with its October decision against state aid, the European Commission announced estimated recovery amount approximately € million, plus interest. The actual amount additional taxes subject recovery calculated the Luxembourg tax authorities accordance with the European Commission' guidance. Once the recovery amount computed Luxembourg, anticipate funding , including interest, into escrow, where will remain pending conclusion all appeals. may required fund into escrow amount excess the estimated recovery amount announced the European Commission. Our liquidity also affected restricted cash balances that are pledged collateral for real estate leases, workers’ compensation obligations, amounts due third-party sellers certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters credit. the extent process payments for third-party sellers offer certain types stored value our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use those funds. These restrictions would result the reclassification portion our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” restricted cash, which classified within “Accounts receivable, net and other” our consolidated balance sheets. December , and , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $ million and $ billion . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data —Note —Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion our principal contractual commitments, well our pledged assets. Additionally, purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $ billion December , . These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable full part through the contractual provisions. believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, well borrowing available under our credit agreements, will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , “Risk Factors.” continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities, obtain capital, finance, and operating lease arrangements, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, repurchase, refinance, otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities would likely dilutive our shareholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition , investment , complementary businesses, products, services, capital infrastructure, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause secure additional financing, issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that additional credit lines financing instruments will available amounts terms acceptable , all. Results Operations have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. Our results reflect the operations Whole Foods Market from the date acquisition. , combined stock-based compensation and “Other operating expense, net” with operating expenses our presentation segment results. These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Segment Information.” Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale products and related shipping fees and digital media content where record revenue gross. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, AWS sales, certain digital content subscriptions, certain advertising services, and our -branded credit card agreements. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales and amortized over the life the membership according the estimated delivery services. Net sales information follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Net Sales: North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , AWS , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America % % % International AWS Consolidated Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect foreign exchange rates: North America % % % International AWS Consolidated Net sales mix: North America % % % International AWS Consolidated % % % Sales increased % and % and , compared the comparable prior year periods. Changes foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales $( ) billion , $( ) million , and $ million for , , and . For discussion the effect sales growth foreign exchange rates, see “Effect Foreign Exchange Rates” below. North America sales increased % and % and , compared the comparable prior year periods. The sales growth each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales third-party sellers, and, , the impact the acquisition Whole Foods Market. Increased unit sales were driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased -stock inventory availability, and increased selection. International sales increased % and % , and , compared the comparable prior year periods. The sales growth each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales third-party sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, increased -stock inventory availability, and increased selection. Changes foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales $( ) billion , $( ) million , and $ million , , and . AWS sales increased % and % and , compared the comparable prior year periods. The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset pricing changes. Pricing changes were driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers. Operating Income (Loss) Operating income (loss) segment follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Operating Income (Loss): North America $ , $ , $ , International ( ) ( , ) ( , ) AWS , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Operating income was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion for , , and . believe that operating income (loss) more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due the diversity our product categories and services. The increase North America operating income absolute dollars and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due increased unit sales, including sales third-party sellers, partially offset increased levels operating expenses expand our fulfillment network and spending technology and content and marketing efforts. Changes foreign exchange rates impacted operating income $ million , $ million , and $( ) million for , , and . The increase International operating loss absolute dollars and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due increased levels operating expenses expand our fulfillment network and spending technology and content and marketing efforts, partially offset increased unit sales, including sales third-party sellers. Changes foreign exchange rates impacted operating loss $( ) million , $ million , and $( ) million for , , and . The increase AWS operating income absolute dollars and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due increased customer usage and cost structure productivity, partially offset pricing changes and increased spending technology infrastructure and sales and marketing expenses and related payroll, which was primarily driven additional investments support the business growth. Changes foreign exchange rates impacted operating income $ million , $( ) million , and $( ) million for , , and . Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Operating expenses: Cost sales $ , $ , $ , Fulfillment , , , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , , Other operating expense, net Total operating expenses $ , $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Cost sales % % % Fulfillment Marketing Technology and content General and administrative Other operating expense, net ( ) Percent Net Sales: Cost sales % % % Fulfillment Marketing Technology and content General and administrative Other operating expense, net Cost Sales Cost sales primarily consists the purchase price consumer products, digital media content costs where record revenue gross, including video and music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery center and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where are the transportation service provider. The increase cost sales absolute dollars and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Shipping costs receive products from our suppliers are included our inventory and recognized cost sales upon sale products our customers. Shipping costs, which include sortation and delivery center and transportation costs, were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . expect our cost shipping continue increase the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers increasing rate, reduce shipping rates, use more expensive shipping methods, and offer additional services. seek mitigate costs shipping over time part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing our fulfillment network, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. believe that offering low prices our customers fundamental our future success, and one way offer lower prices through shipping offers. Costs operate our AWS segment are primarily classified “Technology and content” leverage shared infrastructure that supports both our internal technology requirements and external sales AWS customers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist those costs incurred operating and staffing our North America and International fulfillment centers, customer service centers, and physical stores and payment processing costs. While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included fulfillment, AWS costs are primarily classified “Technology and content.” Fulfillment costs percentage net sales may vary due several factors, such payment processing and related transaction costs, our level productivity and accuracy, changes volume, size, and weight units received and fulfilled, timing fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent utilize fulfillment services provided third parties, mix products and services sold, and our ability affect customer service contacts per unit implementing improvements our operations and enhancements our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based the gross purchase price underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher percentage sales versus our retail sales, sales our sellers have higher fulfillment costs percent net sales. The increase fulfillment costs absolute dollars and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due variable costs corresponding with increased product and service sales volume and inventory levels, and costs from expanding our fulfillment network, which includes physical stores. seek expand our fulfillment network accommodate greater selection and -stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales our own products well sales third parties for which provide the fulfillment services. regularly evaluate our facility requirements. Marketing direct customers our websites primarily through number targeted online marketing channels, such our sponsored search, Associates program, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based growth sales and changes rates. the extent there increased decreased competition for these traffic sources, the extent our mix these channels shifts, would expect see corresponding change our marketing costs. The increase marketing costs absolute dollars and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due payroll and related expenses, well increased spending online marketing channels. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included marketing expense, view these offers effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved the research and development new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance our websites, curation and display products and services made available our websites, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary support AWS, well these and other efforts. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments make order offer wide variety products and services our customers. seek invest efficiently numerous areas technology and content may continue enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating ever increasing scale. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support variety product and service offerings due geographic expansion and the cross-functionality our systems and operations. expect spending technology and content increase over time continue add employees and technology infrastructure. These costs are allocated segments based usage. The increase technology and content costs absolute dollars and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due increased payroll and related costs associated with technical teams responsible for expanding our existing products and services and initiatives introduce new products and service offerings, and increase spending technology infrastructure. For , , and , capitalized $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), and $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation) costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization previously capitalized amounts was $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and . General and Administrative The increase general and administrative costs absolute dollars and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due increases payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net was $ million , $ million , and $ million during , , and , and was primarily related the amortization intangible assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $ million , $ million , and $ million during , , and . generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance invested funds based the prevailing rates, which vary depending the geographies and currencies which they are invested. Interest expense was $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . The increase primarily due increases our capital and finance lease arrangements and long-term debt. Our long-term debt was $ billion and $ billion December , and . Our other long-term liabilities were $ billion and $ billion December , and . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Long-Term Debt and Note —Other Long-Term Liabilities” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $( ) million , $ million , and $ million during , , and . The primary component other income (expense), net related foreign currency and equity warrant valuation. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate subject significant variation due several factors, including variability our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix jurisdictions which they relate, changes how business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit-related developments, changes our stock price, foreign currency gains (losses), tax law developments (including changes statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices), and relative changes expenses losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can more less volatile based the amount pre-tax income loss. For example, the impact discrete items and non-deductible expenses our effective tax rate greater when our pre-tax income lower. The Tax Act was signed into law December , . The Tax Act significantly revises the . corporate income tax , among other things, lowering the statutory corporate tax rate from % %, eliminating certain deductions, imposing mandatory one-time tax accumulated earnings foreign subsidiaries , introducing new tax regimes, and changing how foreign earnings are subject . tax. The Tax Act also enhanced and extended through the option claim accelerated depreciation deductions qualified property. have not completed our determination the accounting implications the Tax Act our tax accruals. However, have reasonably estimated the effects the Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts our financial statements December , . recorded provisional tax benefit for the impact the Tax Act approximately $ million. This amount primarily comprised the remeasurement federal net deferred tax liabilities resulting from the permanent reduction the . statutory corporate tax rate % from %, after taking into account the mandatory one-time tax the accumulated earnings our foreign subsidiaries. The amount this one-time tax not material. complete our analysis the Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued the . Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, may make adjustments the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes the period which the adjustments are made. recorded provision for income taxes $ million , $ billion , and $ million , , and . Our provision for income taxes was higher than primarily due increase . pre-tax income, partially offset increase the proportion foreign losses for which may realize tax benefit, increase tax amortization deductions, and decline the proportion nondeductible expenses. have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which may not realize related tax benefit. Our provision for income taxes was lower than primarily due excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and the provisional favorable effect the Tax Act, partially offset increase the proportion foreign losses for which may not realize tax benefit and audit-related developments. regularly assess whether more likely than not that will realize our deferred tax assets each taxing jurisdiction which operate. performing this assessment with respect each jurisdiction, review all available evidence, including recent cumulative loss experience and expectations future earnings, capital gains, and investment such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. , recognized estimated charge tax expense $ million record valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets Luxembourg. have tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized reduce our . taxable income. The Tax Act enhanced and extended through the option claim accelerated depreciation deductions qualifying property. December , , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $ million and had approximately $ million federal tax credits potentially available offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related the . federal research and development credit. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Income Taxes” for additional information. Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net Tax Equity-method investment activity, net tax, was $( ) million , $( ) million , and $( ) million , , and . The primary components this activity during , , and were our equity-method investment losses during the periods and impairments recorded . Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation , Conditions for Use Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures free cash flows and the effect foreign exchange rates our consolidated statements operations, meet the definition non-GAAP financial measures. provide multiple measures free cash flows because believe these measures provide additional perspective the impact acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. result the adoption new accounting guidance, retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements cash flows reclassify excess tax benefits $ million and $ million and from financing activities operating activities. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow cash flow from operations reduced “Purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net proceeds from property and equipment incentives,” which both are included cash flow from investing activities. The following reconciliation free cash flow the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,” for , , and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net proceeds from property and equipment incentives ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Free cash flow $ , $ , $ , Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , Free Cash Flow Less Lease Principal Repayments Free cash flow less lease principal repayments free cash flow reduced “Principal repayments capital lease obligations,” and “Principal repayments finance lease obligations,” which are included cash flow from financing activities. Free cash flow less lease principal repayments approximates the actual payments cash for our capital and finance leases. The following reconciliation free cash flow less lease principal repayments the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,” for , , and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net proceeds from property and equipment incentives ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Principal repayments capital lease obligations ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Principal repayments finance lease obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow less lease principal repayments $ , $ , $ , Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , Free Cash Flow Less Finance Lease Principal Repayments and Assets Acquired Under Capital Leases Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases free cash flow reduced “Principal repayments finance lease obligations,” which included cash flow from financing activities, and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. this measure, property and equipment acquired under capital leases reflected these assets had been purchased with cash, which not the case these assets have been leased. The following reconciliation free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,” for , , and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, net proceeds from property and equipment incentives ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Principal repayments finance lease obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow less finance lease principal repayments and assets acquired under capital leases $ , $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , All these free cash flows measures have limitations they omit certain components the overall cash flow statement and not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures free cash flows not incorporate the portion payments representing principal reductions debt cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix property and equipment acquisitions with cash other financing options may change over time. Therefore, believe important view free cash flows measures only complement our entire consolidated statements cash flows. Effect Foreign Exchange Rates Information regarding the effect foreign exchange rates, versus the . Dollar, our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income provided show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same those effect the comparable prior year periods. The effect our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income from changes our foreign exchange rates versus the . Dollar follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Reported Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Prior Year Rates ( ) Reported Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Prior Year Rates ( ) Reported Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Prior Year Rates ( ) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Operating expenses , , , , , , ( ) , Operating income , ( ) , , ( ) , , , ___ ________________ ( ) Represents the change reported amounts resulting from changes foreign exchange rates from those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results. ( ) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates the reported period been the same those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results. Guidance provided guidance February , , our earnings release furnished Form - set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon com’ expectations February , , and are subject substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may materially affected many factors, such fluctuations foreign exchange rates, changes global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate growth the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, well those outlined Item Part , “Risk Factors.” First Quarter Guidance • Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and % compared with first quarter . This guidance anticipates favorable impact approximately $ billion basis points from foreign exchange rates. • Operating income expected between $ million and $ billion, compared with $ billion first quarter . • This guidance assumes, among other things, that additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings, legal settlements are concluded. ", 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk set forth below and Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our long-term debt carried amortized cost and fluctuations interest rates not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value our debt, which pays interest fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our consolidated balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined market value due changes interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates December , ( millions, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Money market funds $ , $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ , $ , Weighted-average interest rate % % Corporate debt securities , — , , Weighted-average interest rate % % % % % % . government and agency securities , , — , , Weighted-average interest rate % % % % % % Asset backed securities — — Weighted-average interest rate % % % % % Foreign government and agency securities — — — — Weighted-average interest rate % % % Other securities — — Weighted-average interest rate % % % % % $ , $ , $ , $ $ $ — $ , Cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities $ , December , , had $ billion debt, including the current portion, primarily consisting the following fixed rate unsecured debt ( millions): % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due August , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due November , $ , % Notes due February , $ , % Notes due August , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due August , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due August , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due August , $ , % Notes due August , $ , Based upon quoted market prices and Level inputs, the fair value our total debt was $ billion December , . Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from our International segment accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally-focused websites, and from www amazon and www amazon com (which are included our North America segment), are primarily denominated the functional currencies the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites and AWS are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. For example, result fluctuations foreign exchange rates throughout the period compared rates effect the prior year, International segment net sales increased $ million comparison with the prior year. have foreign exchange risk related foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based the balance foreign funds December , , $ billion , assumed %, %, and % adverse change foreign exchange would result fair value declines $ million, $ billion, and $ billion. All investments are classified “available-for-sale.” Fluctuations fair value are recorded “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” separate component stockholders’ equity. have foreign exchange risk related our intercompany balances denominated various foreign currencies. Based the intercompany balances December , , assumed %, %, and % adverse change foreign exchange would result losses $ million, $ million, and $ billion, recorded “Other income (expense), net.” See Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations—Results Operations—Effect Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information the effect reported results changes foreign exchange rates. Investment Risk December , , our recorded value equity and equity warrant investments public and private companies was $ million. record our equity and equity warrant investments publicly traded companies fair value, which subject market price volatility, and represents $ million our investments December , . evaluate our equity and equity warrant investments private companies for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline fair value such assets below the carrying value other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes review recent operating results and trends, recent sales acquisitions the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations private companies are inherently more complex due the lack readily available market data. such, believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Amazon com, Inc. Opinion the Financial Statements have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , and the related notes (collectively referred the ‘financial statements’). our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), Amazon com, Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility the Company’ management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement, whether due error fraud. Our audit included performing procedures assess the risks material misstatement the financial statements, whether due error fraud, and performing procedures that respond those risks. Such procedures included examining, test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall presentation the financial statements. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. / / Ernst & Young LLP have served the Company’ auditor since . Seattle, Washington February , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income , , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash from operating activities: Depreciation property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization, including capitalized content costs , , , Stock-based compensation , , , Other operating expense, net Other expense (income), net ( ) ( ) Deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable, net and other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts payable , , , Accrued expenses and other , Unearned revenue , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities , , , INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from property and equipment incentives , , Acquisitions, net cash acquired, and other ( ) ( ) ( , ) Sales and maturities marketable securities , , , Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from long-term debt and other , Repayments long-term debt and other ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Principal repayments capital lease obligations ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Principal repayments finance lease obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities ( , ) ( , ) , Foreign currency effect cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , , , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , $ , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest long-term debt $ $ $ Cash paid for interest capital and finance lease obligations Cash paid for income taxes, net refunds Property and equipment acquired under capital leases , , , Property and equipment acquired under build- -suit leases , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended December , Net product sales $ , $ , $ , Net service sales , , , Total net sales , , , Operating expenses: Cost sales , , , Fulfillment , , , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , , Other operating expense, net Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Interest income Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net ( ) Total non-operating income (expense) ( ) ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes ( ) ( , ) ( ) Equity-method investment activity, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income $ $ , $ , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ Weighted-average shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Year Ended December , Net income $ $ , $ , Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency translation adjustments, net tax $ , $( ), and $ ( ) ( ) Net change unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net tax $( ), $( ), and $ ( ) ( ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included “Other income (expense), net,” net tax $ , $ , and $ Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities ( ) ( ) Total other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Comprehensive income $ $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except per share data) December , ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Inventories , , Accounts receivable, net and other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Goodwill , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other , , Unearned revenue , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt , , Other long-term liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies (Note ) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares — Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares — , Issued shares — and Outstanding shares — and Treasury stock, cost ( , ) ( , ) Additional paid- capital , , Accumulated other comprehensive loss ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Total stockholders’ equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY ( millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid- Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance January , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , Net income — — — — — Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — ( ) — ( ) Exercise common stock options — — — — Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock — — — , — — , Issuance common stock for acquisition activity — — — — — Balance December , ( , ) , ( ) , , Net income — — — — — , , Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — ( ) — ( ) Exercise common stock options — — — — Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock — — — , — — , Balance December , ( , ) , ( ) , , Cumulative effect change accounting principle related stock-based compensation — — — — — Net income — — — — — , , Other comprehensive income — — — — — Exercise common stock options — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock — — — , — — , Balance December , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note —DESCRIPTION BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July . seek Earth’ most customer-centric company. each our segments, serve our primary customer sets, consisting consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. serve consumers through our retail websites and physical stores and focus selection, price, and convenience. also manufacture and sell electronic devices. offer programs that enable sellers sell their products our websites and their own branded websites and fulfill orders through , and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others publish and sell content. serve developers and enterprises all sizes through our AWS segment, which offers broad set global compute, storage, database, and other service offerings. addition, provide services, such fulfillment, publishing, certain digital content subscriptions, advertising, and -branded credit cards. have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. See “Note —Segment Information.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified conform the current period presentation, including the expanded presentation “Net cash provided (used ) investing activities” our consolidated statements cash flows and the allocation stock-based compensation “Other operating expense, net” the segment results within “Note - Segment Information.” These revised segment results reflect the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’ business performance and manages its operations. addition, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation were reclassified from “Net cash provided (used ) financing activities” “Net cash provided (used ) operating activities” our consolidated statements cash flows result the adoption new accounting guidance. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Amazon com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities which have variable interest and which are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities India and China and that support our seller lending financing activities (collectively, the “Company”). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. The financial results Whole Foods Market, Inc. (“Whole Foods Market”) have been included our consolidated financial statements from the date acquisition August , . Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , determining the selling price products and services multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the amortization period these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, income taxes, valuation and impairment investments, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, collectability receivables, valuation acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives property and equipment, internal-use software and website development costs, acquisition purchase price allocations, investments equity interests, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect stock awards determined under the treasury stock method. periods when have net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation earnings per share their inclusion would have antidilutive effect. The following table shows the calculation diluted shares ( millions): Year Ended December , Shares used computation basic earnings per share Total dilutive effect outstanding stock awards Shares used computation diluted earnings per share Revenue recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred service has been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectability reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and revenue allocated using estimated selling prices not have vendor-specific objective evidence third-party evidence the selling prices the deliverables. allocate the arrangement price each the elements based the relative selling prices each element. Estimated selling prices are management’ best estimates the prices that would charge our customers were sell the standalone elements separately and include considerations customer demand, prices charged and others for similar deliverables, and the price largely based the cost producing the product service. Sales certain our digital devices are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting the device, undelivered software upgrades and undelivered non-software services such cloud services. The revenue allocated the device, which the substantial portion the total sale price, and related costs are generally recognized upon delivery. Revenue related undelivered software upgrades and undelivered non-software services deferred and recognized generally straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected provided for each these devices. Sales Amazon Prime memberships are also considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, including shipping benefits, Prime Video, Prime Music, Prime Photos, and access the Kindle Owners’ Lending Library. The revenue related the deliverables amortized over the life the membership based the estimated delivery services. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales. Costs deliver Amazon Prime benefits are recognized cost sales incurred. add more benefits the Prime membership, update the method determining the estimated selling prices each element well the allocation Prime membership fees. evaluate whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are primarily obligated transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded the gross sale price. generally record the net amounts commissions earned are not primarily obligated and not have latitude establishing prices. Such amounts earned are determined using fixed fees, percentage seller revenues, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. Product sales represent revenue from the sale products and related shipping fees and digital media content where record revenue gross. Product sales and shipping revenues, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail sales customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier the customer. Amazon’ electronic devices sold through retailers are recognized the point sale consumers. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, AWS sales, certain digital content subscriptions, certain advertising services, and our -branded credit card agreements. Service sales, net promotional discounts and return allowances, are recognized when service has been rendered. Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost sales, are estimated using historical experience. Allowance for returns was $ million , $ million , and $ million December , , , and . Additions the allowance were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , and deductions the allowance were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . Revenue from product sales and services rendered recorded net sales and consumption taxes. Additionally, periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount “Total net sales.” Cost Sales Cost sales primarily consists the purchase price consumer products, digital media content costs where record revenue gross, including video and music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where are the transportation service provider. Shipping costs receive products from our suppliers are included our inventory, and recognized cost sales upon sale products our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified “Fulfillment” our consolidated statements operations. Vendor Agreements have agreements with our vendors receive funds for advertising services, cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, and volume rebates. generally consider amounts received from vendors reduction the prices pay for their goods, including property and equipment, services, and therefore record those amounts reduction the cost inventory, cost services, cost property and equipment. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. evaluate the likelihood reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can reasonably estimated, record portion the rebate make progress towards the purchase threshold. When receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred advertising the vendor’ product service, the amount receive recorded offset “Marketing” our consolidated statements operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs primarily consist those costs incurred operating and staffing our North America and International segments’ fulfillment centers, customer service centers, and physical stores, including costs attributable buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third parties that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing costs primarily consist targeted online advertising, payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities, and television advertising. pay commissions participants our Associates program when their customer referrals result product sales and classify such costs “Marketing” our consolidated statements operations. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs are expensed incurred and were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant December , and . Technology and Content Technology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved the research and development new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance our websites, curation and display products and services made available our websites, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary support AWS, well these and other efforts. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments make order offer wide variety products and services our customers. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software and website development costs, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment, such depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs for corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected vest measured fair value the date grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value restricted stock units determined based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock, and the fair value stock options estimated the date grant using the Black-Scholes model. Such value recognized expense over the service period, net estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee level, economic conditions, time remaining vest, and historical forfeiture experience. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net, consists primarily marketing-related, contract-based, and customer-related intangible asset amortization expense, and expenses related legal settlements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily foreign currency gains (losses) $( ) million , $ million , and $ million , , and , equity warrant valuation gains (losses) $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and , and realized gains (losses) marketable securities sales $( ) million , $( ) million , and $( ) million , , and . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Tax legislation commonly known the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “ Tax Act”) includes mandatory one-time tax accumulated earnings foreign subsidiaries, and result, all previously unremitted earnings for which . deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject . tax. Notwithstanding the . taxation these amounts, intend continue invest most all these earnings, well our capital these subsidiaries, indefinitely outside the . and not expect incur any significant, additional taxes related such amounts. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe they will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative loss experience and expectations future earnings, capital gains and investment such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. utilize two-step approach recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step evaluate the tax position for recognition determining the weight available evidence indicates more likely than not that the position will sustained audit, including resolution related appeals litigation processes. The second step measure the tax benefit the largest amount which more than % likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. include interest and penalties related our tax contingencies income tax expense. Fair Value Financial Instruments Fair value defined the price that would received sell asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. increase the comparability fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs valuation methodologies used measure fair value: Level —Valuations based quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities active markets. Level —Valuations based observable inputs other than quoted prices included Level , such quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities active markets, quoted prices for identical similar assets and liabilities markets that are not active, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data. Level —Valuations based unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. For our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, measure the fair value money market funds and equity securities based quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based recent trades securities inactive markets based quoted market prices similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities categorized Level assets December , and . part entering into commercial agreements, often obtain equity warrant assets giving the right acquire stock other companies. December , and , these warrants had fair value $ million and $ million , and are recorded within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets. The related gain (loss) recorded “Other income (expense), net” was $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . These assets are primarily classified Level assets. Cash and Cash Equivalents classify all highly liquid instruments with original maturity three months less cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first- , first-out method, and are valued the lower cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. provide Fulfillment Amazon services connection with certain our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership their inventory, regardless whether fulfillment provided the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included our inventories. also purchase electronic device components from variety suppliers and use several contract manufacturers provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course business, order manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic device components. portion our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based forecasted customer demand. reduce these commitments, may incur additional costs. also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products offered our Whole Foods Market stores. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included “Accounts receivable, net and other” our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related customers, sellers, and vendors. December , and , customer receivables, net, were $ billion and $ billion , seller receivables, net, were $ million and $ million , and vendor receivables, net, were $ billion and $ billion . Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related our seller lending program, which provides funding sellers primarily procure inventory. estimate losses receivables based known troubled accounts and historical experience losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when probable that all contractual payments due will not collected accordance with the terms the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $ million , $ million , and $ million December , , , and . Additions the allowance were $ million , $ million , and $ million , and deductions the allowance were $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . The allowance for loan losses related our seller receivables was not material December , and . Internal-Use Software and Website Development Costs incurred develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software . Costs related design maintenance internal-use software and website development are expensed incurred. For the years ended , , and , capitalized $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), and $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation) costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization previously capitalized amounts was $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and . Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated cost less accumulated depreciation. Incentives that receive from property and equipment vendors are recorded reduction our costs. Property includes buildings and land that own, along with property have acquired under build- -suit, finance, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, servers and networking equipment, and internal-use software and website development. Depreciation recorded straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building, two years for assets such internal-use software, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense classified within the corresponding operating expense categories our consolidated statements operations. Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations categorize leases their inception either operating capital leases. certain our lease agreements, may receive rent holidays and other incentives. recognize lease costs straight-line basis without regard deferred payment terms, such rent holidays, that defer the commencement date required payments. Additionally, incentives receive are treated reduction our costs over the term the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized cost and amortized over the lesser their expected useful life the non-cancellable term the lease. establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build- -suit lease arrangements the extent are involved the construction structural improvements take construction risk prior commencement lease. Upon occupancy facilities under build- -suit leases, assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. continue the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for finance leases. establish assets and liabilities for the present value estimated future costs retire long-lived assets the termination expiration lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted the future value the estimated retirement costs. Goodwill evaluate goodwill for impairment annually more frequently when event occurs circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. testing goodwill for impairment, may elect utilize qualitative assessment evaluate whether more likely than not that the fair value reporting unit less than its carrying amount. our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment more likely than not, perform two-step impairment test. test goodwill for impairment under the two-step impairment test first comparing the book value net assets the fair value the reporting units. the fair value determined less than the book value qualitative factors indicate that more likely than not that goodwill impaired, second step performed compute the amount impairment the difference between the estimated fair value goodwill and the carrying value. estimate the fair value the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts future cash flows are based our best estimate future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. completed the required annual testing goodwill for impairment for all reporting units April , , and determined that goodwill impaired the fair value our reporting units substantially exceeded their book value. There were triggering events identified from the date our assessment through December , that would require update our annual impairment test. See “Note —Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related acquired intangible assets, net amortization; video and music content, net amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority which are attributable collateralization bank guarantees and debt related our international operations; and equity warrant assets. Video and Music Content obtain video and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have wide range licensing provisions, which include both fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for specific movie, television, music title determinable reasonably estimable and the content available for streaming, recognize asset representing the fee and corresponding liability for the amounts owed. relieve the liability payments are made and amortize the asset “Cost sales” straight-line basis accelerated basis, based estimated usage patterns, which typically ranges from one five years. are unable reasonably estimate the cost per title, asset liability recorded and licensing costs are expensed incurred. also develop original content. Capitalized production costs associated with our original content are limited the amount revenue expect earn, which results portion being expensed incurred. These capitalized costs are amortized “Cost sales” accelerated basis that follows the viewing pattern customer streams the first months after availability. Investments generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included “Cash and cash equivalents” “Marketable securities” the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Marketable securities are classified available-for-sale and reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. Equity-method investments are included within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets. Our share the earnings losses reported equity-method investees, amortization basis differences, and related gains losses, any, are classified “Equity - method investment activity, net tax” our consolidated statements operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values and for which not have the ability exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method accounting and classified “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified available-for-sale and are included “Marketable securities” our consolidated balance sheets and are recorded fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net tax, included “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” periodically evaluate whether declines fair values our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration the unrealized loss well our ability and intent hold the investment until forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, assess whether have plans sell the security more likely than not will required sell any investment before recovery its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions offers investee securities; credit quality debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value our investments; duration and severity the decline value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets may not recoverable. For long-lived assets used operations, impairment losses are only recorded the asset’ carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. measure the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed plan sell the asset, the asset available for sale its immediate condition, and the sale probable within one year the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Assets held for sale were not significant December , and . Accrued Expenses and Other Included “Accrued expenses and other” our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related unredeemed gift cards, leases and asset retirement obligations, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. December , and , our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards was $ billion and $ billion . reduce the liability for gift card when redeemed customer. gift card not redeemed, recognize revenue when expires when the likelihood its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments are received advance performing our service obligations and recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates prepayments Amazon Prime memberships and AWS services. Included “Other long-term liabilities” our consolidated balance sheets was $ million and $ billion unearned revenue December , and . The amortization previously unearned revenue was approximately $ billion and $ billion and . Foreign Currency have internationally-focused websites for Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom . Net sales generated from these websites, well most the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated local functional currencies. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these websites generally the same the local currency. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” separate component stockholders’ equity, and the “Foreign currency effect cash and cash equivalents,” our consolidated statements cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved are included “Other income (expense), net” our consolidated statements operations. connection with the settlement and remeasurement intercompany balances, recorded loss $ million and recorded gains $ million and $ million and . Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted July , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) modifying the accounting for inventory. Under this ASU, the measurement principle for inventory changed from lower cost market value lower cost and net realizable value. The ASU defines net realizable value the estimated selling price the ordinary course business, less reasonably predictable costs completion, disposal, and transportation. The ASU applicable inventory that accounted for under the first- , first-out method. adopted this ASU with material impact our consolidated financial statements. March , the FASB issued ASU amending the accounting for stock-based compensation and requiring excess tax benefits and deficiencies recognized component income tax expense rather than equity. The inclusion excess tax benefits and deficiencies component our income tax expense will increase volatility within our provision for income taxes the amount excess tax benefits deficiencies from stock-based compensation awards depends our stock price the date the awards vest. This guidance also requires excess tax benefits presented operating activity the statement cash flows and allows entity make accounting policy election either estimate expected forfeitures account for them they occur. adopted this ASU recording the cumulative impact through increase retained earnings $ million , and will continue estimate expected forfeitures. Additionally, retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements cash flows reclassify excess tax benefits $ million and $ million for the year ended December , and from financing activities operating activities. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted May , the FASB issued ASU amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures enable users financial statements understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. will adopt this ASU January , with cumulative adjustment that will increase retained earnings approximately $ million rather than retrospectively adjusting prior periods. The cumulative adjustment will primarily relate unredeemed gift cards. will begin recognize revenue from estimated unredeemed gift cards over the expected customer redemption period, which substantially within nine months, rather than waiting until gift cards expire when the likelihood redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date issuance. Other changes relate Amazon-branded electronic devices sold through retailers, which will recognized upon sale the retailer rather than end customers. also will change how recognize and classify Amazon Prime memberships, which are currently considered arrangements with multiple deliverables that are allocated among products sales and service sales. Upon adoption the ASU, Amazon Prime memberships will accounted for single performance obligation recognized ratably over the membership period and will classified service sales. Other changes that have identified relate primarily the presentation revenue. Certain advertising services will classified revenue rather than reduction cost sales, and sales apps, -app content, and certain digital media content will primarily presented net basis. January , the FASB issued ASU which updates certain aspects recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure financial instruments. Under this ASU, certain equity investments will measured fair value with changes recognized net income. The ASU effective for reporting periods beginning after December , . not expect adoption the ASU have material impact our consolidated financial statements. February , the FASB issued ASU amending the accounting for leases. The new guidance requires the recognition lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms more than months, addition those currently recorded, our consolidated balance sheets. Presentation leases within the consolidated statements operations and consolidated statements cash flows will generally consistent with the current lease accounting guidance. The ASU effective for reporting periods beginning after December , , with early adoption permitted. plan adopt this ASU beginning . are currently evaluating the impact and expect the ASU will have material impact our consolidated financial statements, primarily the consolidated balance sheets and related disclosures. October , the FASB issued ASU amending the accounting for income taxes. The new guidance requires the recognition the income tax consequences intercompany asset transfer, other than transfers inventory, when the transfer occurs. For intercompany transfers inventory, the income tax effects will continue deferred until the inventory has been sold third party. The ASU effective for reporting periods beginning after December , , with early adoption permitted. will adopt this ASU beginning . estimate the ASU will have impact approximately $ million our consolidated financial statements, including retained earnings and deferred taxes. This estimate takes into account valuation allowances that anticipate recording against certain material deferred tax assets. Any change our assessment the likelihood our ability realize deferred tax assets will reflected income tax benefit during the quarter such change. November , the FASB issued ASU amending the presentation restricted cash within the statement cash flows. The new guidance requires that restricted cash included within cash and cash equivalents the statement cash flows. The ASU effective retrospectively for reporting periods beginning after December , , with early adoption permitted. will adopt this ASU beginning . Note —CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES December , and , our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted cash, . and foreign government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded fair value. The following tables summarize, major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are measured fair value recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy ( millions): December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , Level securities: Money market funds , — — , Equity securities — Level securities: Foreign government and agency securities — — . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate debt securities , ( ) , Asset-backed securities — ( ) Other fixed income securities — — $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) ( ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , Level securities: Money market funds , — — , Equity securities — Level securities: Foreign government and agency securities — — . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate debt securities , ( ) , Asset-backed securities — ( ) Other fixed income securities — ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) ( , ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , ___________________ ( ) are required pledge otherwise restrict portion our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities collateral for real estate leases, workers’ compensation obligations, amounts due third-party sellers certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters credit. classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with use restrictions less than twelve months “Accounts receivable, net and other” and twelve months longer non-current “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note —Commitments and Contingencies.” The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities ( millions): Year Ended December , Realized gains $ $ $ Realized losses The following table summarizes the contractual maturities our cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through ten years Due after ten years Total $ , $ , Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. Note —PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, cost, consisted the following ( millions): December , Gross property and equipment ( ): Land and buildings $ , $ , Equipment and internal-use software ( ) , , Other corporate assets , Construction progress , , Gross property and equipment , , Total accumulated depreciation ( ) , , Total property and equipment, net $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation fully-depreciated assets. ( ) Includes internal-use software $ billion and $ billion December , and . Depreciation expense property and equipment was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion which includes amortization property and equipment acquired under capital leases $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion for , , and . Gross assets recorded under capital leases were $ billion and $ billion December , and . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $ billion and $ billion December , and . capitalize construction progress and record corresponding long-term liability for build- -suit lease agreements where are considered the owner, for accounting purposes, during the construction period. For buildings under build- -suit lease arrangements where have taken occupancy, which not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance, determined that continue the deemed owner these buildings. This principally due our significant investment tenant improvements. result, the buildings are being depreciated over the shorter their useful lives the related leases’ terms. Additionally, certain build- -suit lease arrangements and finance leases provide purchase options. Upon occupancy, the long-term construction obligations are considered long-term finance lease obligations with amounts payable during the next months recorded “Accrued expenses and other.” Gross assets remaining under finance leases were $ billion and $ billion December , and . Accumulated depreciation associated with finance leases was $ million and $ million December , and . Note —ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquisition Activity During and , acquired certain companies for aggregate purchase price $ million and $ million . The primary reason for these acquisitions, none which were individually material our consolidated financial statements, was acquire technologies and know-how enable Amazon serve customers more effectively. May , , acquired Souq Group Ltd. (“Souq”), -commerce company, for approximately $ million , net cash acquired, and August , , acquired Whole Foods Market, grocery store chain, for approximately $ billion , net cash acquired. Both acquisitions are intended expand our retail presence. During , also acquired certain other companies for aggregate purchase price $ million . The primary reason for our other acquisitions was acquire technologies and know-how enable Amazon serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed incurred and were not significant. The valuation certain assets and liabilities the Whole Foods Market acquisition preliminary and subject change. Purchase Price Allocation The aggregate purchase price the and acquisitions, and the Whole Foods Market and other acquisitions, which primarily includes the acquisition Souq, was allocated follows ( millions): December , Whole Foods Market Other Acquisitions Total Purchase Price Cash paid, net cash acquired $ $ $ , $ $ , Stock options assumed — — — — Indemnification holdback — $ $ $ , $ $ , Allocation Goodwill $ $ $ , $ $ , Intangible assets ( ): Marketing-related , , Contract-based Technology-based — Customer-related — , , Property and equipment , , Deferred tax assets Other assets acquired , , Long-term debt ( ) ( ) ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Deferred tax liabilities ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Other liabilities assumed ( ) ( ) ( , ) ( ) ( , ) $ $ $ , $ $ , ___________________ ( ) Intangible assets acquired , , and the other acquisitions have estimated useful lives between one and six years, one and seven years, and one and seven years, with weighted-average amortization periods five years, five years, and four years. Acquired intangible assets for Whole Foods Market have estimated useful lives between one and twenty-five years, with weighted-average amortization period twenty-three years, primarily driven the Whole Foods Market trade name. The fair value assumed stock options, estimated using the Black-Scholes model, and restricted stock units $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and will expensed over the remaining service period. determined the estimated fair value identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily using the income approach. These assets are included within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized operating expenses straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Pro Forma Financial Information - Acquisition Activity (unaudited) The acquired companies were consolidated into our financial statements starting their respective acquisition dates. The aggregate net sales and operating loss Whole Foods Market consolidated into our financial statements since the date acquisition was $ billion and $( ) million for the year ended December , . The aggregate net sales and operating loss other acquisitions consolidated into our financial statements since the respective dates acquisition was $ million and $( ) million for the year ended December , . The following financial information, which excludes certain acquired companies for which the pro forma impact not meaningful, presents our results the acquisitions during the year ended December , had occurred January , ( millions): Twelve Months Ended December , Net sales $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , These pro forma results are based estimates and assumptions, which believe are reasonable. They are not the results that would have been realized had the acquisitions actually occurred January , and are not necessarily indicative our consolidated results operations future periods. The pro forma results include adjustments related purchase accounting, primarily interest expense related the proceeds from the issuance the August Notes used connection with the acquisition Whole Foods Market, depreciation property and equipment, and amortization intangible assets. Goodwill The goodwill the acquired companies primarily related expected improvements technology performance and functionality, well sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together with certain intangible assets that not qualify for separate recognition. The goodwill the acquired companies generally not deductible for tax purposes. The following summarizes our goodwill activity and segment ( millions): North America International AWS Consolidated Goodwill - January , $ , $ $ , $ , New acquisitions Other adjustments ( ) ( ) ( ) Goodwill - December , , , , New acquisitions ( ) , , Other adjustments ( ) Goodwill - December , $ , $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Primarily includes changes foreign exchange rates. ( ) Primarily includes the acquisition Whole Foods Market the North America segment and Souq the International segment. Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets, consist the following ( millions): December , Acquired Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Acquired Intangibles, Net Weighted Average Life Remaining Marketing-related $ $ ( ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ , Contract-based ( ) , ( ) Technology- and content-based ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Acquired intangibles ( ) $ , $ ( , ) $ $ , $ ( , ) $ , ___________________ ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization fully-amortized intangibles. ( ) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives between one and twenty-five years. Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . Expected future amortization expense acquired intangible assets December , follows ( millions): Year Ended December , $ Thereafter , $ , Note —LONG-TERM DEBT December , , had $ billion unsecured senior notes outstanding (the “Notes”), including $ billion notes issued and assumed connection with our August acquisition Whole Foods Market. December , and , the net unamortized discount the Notes was $ million and $ million . also have other long-term debt with carrying amount, including the current portion and borrowings under our credit facility, $ million and $ million December , and . The face value our total long-term debt obligations follows ( millions): December , % Notes due November , $ , $ — % Notes due December , ( ) , , % Notes due August , ( ) — , % Notes due December , ( ) , , % Notes due November , ( ) , , % Notes due February , ( ) — , % Notes due August , ( ) — , % Notes due December , ( ) , , % Notes due December , ( ) — , % Notes due August , ( ) — , % Notes due December , ( ) , , % Notes due August , ( ) — , % Notes due December , ( ) , , % Notes due August , ( ) — , % Notes due August , ( ) — , Credit Facility Other long-term debt Total debt , , Less current portion long-term debt ( , ) ( ) Face value long-term debt $ , $ , _____________________________ ( ) Issued November , effective interest rate the Notes were % . ( ) Issued December , effective interest rates the , , , , and Notes were % , % , % , % , and % . ( ) Issued August , effective interest rates the , , , , , , and Notes were % , % , % , % , % , % , and % . ( ) Consists $ million Notes issued December exchange for notes assumed connection with the acquisition Whole Foods Market and $ million Notes issued Whole Foods Market that did not participate our December exchange offer. The effective interest rate the Notes was % . Interest the Notes issued payable semi-annually arrears May and November . Interest the Notes issued payable semi-annually arrears June and December . Interest the Notes issued payable semi-annually arrears February and August. Interest the Notes payable semi-annually arrears June and December. may redeem the Notes any time whole, from time time, part specified redemption prices. are not subject any financial covenants under the Notes. The proceeds from the November and December Notes were used for general corporate purposes. The proceeds from the August Notes were used fund the consideration for the acquisition Whole Foods Market, repay the % Notes due November , and for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value the Notes was approximately $ billion and $ billion December , and , which based quoted prices for our debt those dates. October , entered into $ million secured revolving credit facility with lender that secured certain seller receivables , which subsequently increased $ million and may from time time increase the future subject lender approval (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility available for term three years , bears interest the London interbank offered rate (“ LIBOR ”) plus % , and has commitment fee % the undrawn portion. There was $ million and $ million borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility December , and , which had weighted-average interest rate % and % December , and . December , , have pledged $ million our cash and seller receivables collateral for debt related our Credit Facility. The estimated fair value the Credit Facility, which based Level inputs, approximated its carrying value December , and . December , conducted exchange offer related the $ billion % senior notes due assumed our acquisition Whole Foods Market. connection with the exchange offer, issued $ million aggregate principal amount new Amazon % senior notes due , and $ million aggregate principal amount Whole Foods Market’ previously issued notes remained outstanding. also amended the Whole Foods Market indenture eliminate substantially all the restrictive covenants and certain events default from the remaining Whole Foods Market notes. The other debt, including the current portion, had weighted-average interest rate % and % December , and . used the net proceeds from the issuance this debt primarily fund certain business operations. The estimated fair value the other long-term debt, which based Level inputs, approximated its carrying value December , and . December , , future principal payments for our total debt were follows ( millions): Year Ended December , $ , , , , Thereafter , $ , May , entered into unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with syndicate lenders that provides with borrowing capacity $ billion . The Credit Agreement has term three years , but may extended for three additional one -year terms approved the lenders. The initial interest rate applicable outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement LIBOR plus % , with commitment fee % the undrawn portion the credit facility, under our current credit ratings. our credit ratings are downgraded these rates could increase much LIBOR plus % and % , respectively. There were borrowings outstanding under the credit agreements December , and . Note —OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized follows ( millions): December , Long-term capital lease obligations $ , $ , Long-term finance lease obligations , , Construction liabilities , Tax contingencies , , Long-term deferred tax liabilities Other , , Total other long-term liabilities $ , $ , Capital and Finance Leases Certain our equipment, primarily related technology infrastructure, and buildings have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are follows ( millions): December , Gross capital lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion capital lease obligations ( , ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ , continue the deemed owner after occupancy certain facilities that were constructed build- -suit lease arrangements and previously reflected “Construction liabilities.” such, these arrangements are accounted for finance leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are follows ( millions): December , Gross finance lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( , ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion finance lease obligations ( ) Total long-term finance lease obligations $ , Construction Liabilities capitalize construction progress and record corresponding long-term liability for build- -suit lease agreements where are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes. These liabilities primarily relate our corporate buildings and fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data centers. Tax Contingencies have recorded reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive accrued interest and penalties, for . and foreign income taxes. These reserves primarily relate transfer pricing, research and development credits, and state income taxes, and are presented net offsetting deferred tax assets related net operating losses and tax credits. See “Note —Income Taxes” for discussion tax contingencies. Note —COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital, and finance leases for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, data center, physical store, and renewable energy facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion for , , and . The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally cancellable, December , ( millions): Year Ended December , Thereafter Total Debt principal and interest $ $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Capital lease obligations, including interest ( ) , , , , Finance lease obligations, including interest ( ) , , Operating leases , , , , , , , Unconditional purchase obligations ( ) , , , , , , , Other commitments ( ) ( ) , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Excluding interest, current capital lease obligations $ billion and $ billion are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” December , and , and $ billion and $ billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” December , and . ( ) Excluding interest, current finance lease obligations $ million and $ million are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” December , and , and $ billion and $ billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” December , and . ( ) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related certain products offered our Whole Foods Market stores and long-term agreements acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected the consolidated balance sheets. For those digital media content agreements with variable terms, not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and pricing the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely the option the content provider are included the extent such commitments are fixed minimum amount specified. ( ) Includes the estimated timing and amounts payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build- -suit lease arrangements and equipment lease arrangements that have not been placed service and digital media content liabilities associated with long-term digital media content assets with initial terms greater than one year. ( ) Excludes $ billion accrued tax contingencies for which cannot make reasonably reliable estimate the amount and period payment, any. Pledged Assets December , and , have pledged otherwise restricted $ million and $ billion our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment collateral for real estate leases, workers’ compensation obligations, amounts due third-party sellers certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters credit. Suppliers During , vendor accounted for % more our purchases. generally not have long-term contracts arrangements with our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. Other Contingencies , determined that processed and delivered orders consumer products for certain individuals and entities located outside Iran covered the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act other United States sanctions and export control laws. The consumer products included books, music, other media, apparel, home and kitchen, health and beauty, jewelry, office, consumer electronics, software, lawn and patio, grocery, and automotive products. Our review ongoing and have voluntarily reported these orders the United States Treasury Department’ Office Foreign Assets Control and the United States Department Commerce’ Bureau Industry and Security. intend cooperate fully with OFAC and BIS with respect their review, which may result the imposition penalties. For additional information, see Item Part , “Other Information — Disclosure Pursuant Section ( ) the Exchange Act.” are subject claims related various indirect taxes (such sales, value added, consumption, service, and similar taxes), including jurisdictions which already collect and remit such taxes. the relevant taxing authorities were successfully pursue these claims, could subject significant additional tax liabilities. For example, June , the State South Carolina issued assessment for uncollected sales and use taxes for the period from January March , including interest and penalties. South Carolina alleging that should have collected sales and use taxes transactions our third-party sellers. believe the assessment without merit. South Carolina other states were successfully seek additional adjustments similar nature, could subject significant additional tax liabilities. intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. Legal Proceedings The Company involved from time time claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the following: November , Austrian copyright collection society, Austro-Mechana, filed lawsuits against Amazon com International Sales, Inc., Amazon ., Amazon GmbH, Amazon com GmbH, and Amazon Logistik the Commercial Court Vienna, Austria and the District Court Munich, Germany seeking collect tariff blank digital media sold our -based retail websites customers located Austria. July , the German court stayed the German case pending final decision the Austrian case. July , the Austrian court ruled favor Austro-Mechana and ordered report all sales products which the tariff potentially applies for determination damages. contested Austro-Mechana’ claim and September commenced appeal the Commercial Court Vienna. lost this appeal and March commenced appeal the Supreme Court Austria. October , the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case the European Court Justice (“ECJ”). July , the ECJ ruled that law does not preclude application the tariff where certain conditions are met and directed the case back the Austrian Supreme Court for further proceedings. October , the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case back the Commercial Court Vienna for further fact finding determine whether the tariff blank digital media meets the conditions set the ECJ. August , the Commercial Court Vienna ruled that the Austrian tariff regime does not meet the conditions the ECJ set and dismissed Austro-Mechana’ claims. September , Austro-Mechana appealed that judgment the Higher Commercial Court Vienna. December , the Higher Commercial Court Vienna confirmed that the Austrian tariff regime does not meet the conditions the ECJ set and dismissed Austro-Mechana’ appeal. February , Austro-Mechana appealed that judgment the Austrian Supreme Court. March , the Austrian Supreme Court ruled favor Austro-Mechana and referred the case back the Commercial Court Vienna for further proceedings. number additional actions have been filed making similar allegations. December , German copyright collection society, Zentralstelle für private Überspielungsrechte (“ZPU”), filed complaint against Amazon ., Amazon Media ., Amazon Services Europe ., Amazon Payments Europe SCA, Amazon Europe Holding Technologies SCS, and Amazon Eurasia Holdings . the District Court Luxembourg seeking collect tariff blank digital media sold the Amazon retail website customers located Germany. January , Belgian copyright collection society, AUVIBEL, filed complaint against Amazon . the Court First Instance Brussels, Belgium, seeking collect tariff blank digital media sold the Amazon retail website customers located Belgium. November , the Belgian court ruled favor AUVIBEL and ordered report all sales products which the tariff potentially applies for determination damages. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously these matters. Beginning August , number complaints were filed alleging, among other things, that Amazon com, Inc. and several its subsidiaries failed compensate hourly workers for time spent waiting security lines and otherwise violated federal and state wage and hour statutes and common law. August , Busk . Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. and Amazon com, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the District Nevada, and Vance . Amazon com, Inc., Zappos com Inc., another affiliate Amazon com, Inc., and Kelly Services, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Western District Kentucky. September , Allison . Amazon com, Inc. and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, and Johnson . Amazon com, Inc. and affiliate Amazon com, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Western District Kentucky. October , Davis . Amazon com, Inc., affiliate Amazon com, Inc., and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Middle District Tennessee. The plaintiffs variously purport represent nationwide class certain current and former employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act and state-law-based subclasses for certain current and former employees states including Arizona, California, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Kentucky, Washington, and Nevada, and one complaint asserts nationwide breach contract and unjust enrichment claims. The complaints seek unspecified amount damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. have been named several other similar cases. December , the Supreme Court ruled Busk that time spent waiting for and undergoing security screening not compensable working time under the federal wage and hour statute. February , the courts those actions alleging only federal law claims entered stipulated orders dismissing those actions without prejudice. March , the United States District Court for the Western District Kentucky dismissed the Vance case with prejudice. April , the plaintiffs appealed the district court’ judgment the United States Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit. March , the court appeals affirmed the district court’ decision. June , the United States District Court for the Western District Kentucky dismissed the Busk and Saldana cases with prejudice. dispute any remaining allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously these matters. March , Kaavo, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Web Services’ Elastic Beanstalk and CloudFormation infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “Cloud Computing Lifecycle Management For -Tier Applications.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unspecified amount damages, costs, and interest. July , Kaavo Inc. filed another complaint against Amazon com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that CloudFormation infringes . Patent . , , , entitled “Methods And Devices For Managing Cloud Computing Environment.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. September , the case was stayed pending resolution review petition filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously these matters. December , Smartflash LLC and Smartflash Technologies Limited filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc., Amazon com, LLC, AMZN Mobile, LLC, Amazon Web Services, Inc. and Audible, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, Audible Audiobooks, the Amazon Mobile Network, certain Kindle and Fire devices, Kindle -bookstore, Amazon’ proprietary Android operating system, and the servers involved operating Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, the Fire app, Audible Audiobooks, Cloud Drive, Cloud Player, Amazon Web Services, and Amazon Mobile Network infringe seven related . Patents: Nos. , , ; , , ; , , ; , , ; , , ; , , ; and , , , all entitled “Data Storage and Access Systems.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, injunction, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. May , the case was stayed until further notice. March , unrelated lawsuit, the United States Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit entered judgment invalidating all asserted claims . Patent Nos. , , ; , , ; and , , . dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. March , Zitovault, LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc., Amazon com, LLC, Amazon Web Services, Inc., and Amazon Web Services, LLC for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges that Elastic Compute Cloud, Virtual Private Cloud, Elastic Load Balancing, Auto-Scaling, and Elastic Beanstalk infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “System and Method for Maintaining Number Simultaneous Cryptographic Sessions Using Distributed Computing Environment.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. January , the case was transferred the United States District Court for the Western District Washington. June , the case was stayed pending resolution review petition filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. Beginning September , two cases have been filed alleging that Amazon violated the Fair Credit Reporting Act with regard processes undertaken perform criminal background checks candidates for employment and employees. September , Hargrett . Amazon com LLC and Amazon comdedc, LLC was filed the . District Court for the Middle District Florida. August , Mathis . Amazon comdedc, LLC and Accurate Background, LLC was filed the . District Court for the Middle District Florida. The plaintiffs variously purport represent nationwide class certain candidates for employment and employees who were subject background check, and allege that Amazon failed either provide proper disclosures before obtaining background checks provide appropriate notice before using background check information employment decisions. The complaints seek unspecified amount statutory damages, punitive damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously these matters. November , Eolas Technologies, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use “interactive features” www amazon com, including “search suggestions and search results,” infringes . Patent . , , , entitled “Distributed Hypermedia Method and System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display Embedded Objects Within Hypermedia Document.” The complaint sought judgment infringement together with costs and attorneys’ fees. February , Eolas filed amended complaint seeking, among other things, unspecified amount damages. February , Eolas alleged its damages report that the event finding liability Amazon could subject $ - $ million damages. April , the case was transferred the United States District Court for the Northern District California. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. October , SRC Labs, LLC and Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe filed complaint for patent infringement against Amazon Web Services, Inc., Amazon com, Inc., and VADATA, Inc. the United States District Court for the Eastern District Virginia. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain AWS EC2 Instances infringe . Patent Nos. , , , entitled “System and method for accelerating web site access and processing utilizing computer system incorporating reconfigurable processors operating under single operating system image”; , , , entitled “System and method enhancing efficiency and utilization memory bandwidth reconfigurable hardware”; , , and , , , both entitled “Multi-adaptive processing systems and techniques for enhancing parallelism and performance computational functions”; and , , , entitled “System and method for retaining DRAM data when reprogramming reconfigurable devices with DRAM memory controllers.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, interest, and compulsory -going royalty. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. The outcomes our legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, subject significant uncertainties, and could material our operating results and cash flows for particular period. addition, for the matters disclosed above that not include estimate the amount loss range losses, such estimate not possible immaterial, and may unable estimate the possible loss range losses that could potentially result from the application non-monetary remedies. See also “Note —Income Taxes.” Note —STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock have authorized million shares $ par value preferred stock. preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled million , million , and million , December , , , and . These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, including those awards estimate will forfeited. Stock Repurchase Activity February , the Board Directors authorized program repurchase $ billion our common stock, with fixed expiration. This stock repurchase authorization replaced the previous $ billion stock repurchase authorization, approved the Board Directors . There were repurchases common stock , , . Stock Award Plans Employees vest restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years . Stock Award Activity Stock options outstanding, which were primarily obtained through acquisitions, totaled million, million, and million, December , , , and . Stock-based compensation expense follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Cost sales ( ) $ — $ $ Fulfillment Marketing Technology and content , , , General and administrative Total stock-based compensation expense ( ) $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Beginning , stock-based compensation expense was recorded cost sales for eligible employees providing delivery services. ( ) The related tax benefits were $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and . , the tax benefit reflects the permanent reduction the . statutory corporate tax rate from % % . The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity ( millions): Number Units Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Outstanding January , $ Units granted Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) Outstanding December , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) Outstanding December , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) Outstanding December , $ Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units December , , follows ( millions): Year Ended Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting—restricted stock units December , , there was $ billion net unrecognized compensation cost related unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation recognized accelerated basis with approximately half the compensation expected expensed the next twelve months, and has weighted-average recognition period years. The estimated forfeiture rate December , , , and was % . Changes our estimates and assumptions relating forfeitures may cause realize material changes stock-based compensation expense the future. During , , and , the fair value restricted stock units that vested was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan, granted million shares common stock and . Shares granted matching contributions under our ( ) plan are included outstanding common stock when issued, and recorded stock-based compensation expense. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance December , , common stock available for future issuance employees million shares. Note —ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Changes the composition accumulated other comprehensive loss for , , and are follows ( millions): Foreign currency translation adjustments Unrealized gains available-for-sale securities Total Balances January , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) ( ) Balances December , ( ) ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Balances December , ( , ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) Balances December , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Amounts included accumulated other comprehensive loss are recorded net their related income tax effects. Note —INCOME TAXES , , and , recorded net tax provisions $ million , $ billion , and $ million . have tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized reduce our . taxable income. Cash taxes paid, net refunds, were $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and . The Tax Act was signed into law December , . The Tax Act significantly revises the . corporate income tax , among other things, lowering the statutory corporate tax rate from % % , eliminating certain deductions, imposing mandatory one-time tax accumulated earnings foreign subsidiaries, introducing new tax regimes, and changing how foreign earnings are subject . tax. The Tax Act also enhanced and extended through the option claim accelerated depreciation deductions qualified property. have not completed our determination the accounting implications the Tax Act our tax accruals. However, have reasonably estimated the effects the Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts our financial statements December , . recorded provisional tax benefit for the impact the Tax Act approximately $ million . This amount primarily comprised the remeasurement federal net deferred tax liabilities resulting from the permanent reduction the . statutory corporate tax rate % from % , after taking into account the mandatory one-time tax the accumulated earnings our foreign subsidiaries. The amount this one-time tax not material. complete our analysis the Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued the . Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, may make adjustments the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes the period which the adjustments are made. The components the provision for income taxes, net are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Current taxes: . Federal $ $ , $ ( ) . State International Current taxes , Deferred taxes: . Federal ( ) . State ( ) ( ) ( ) International ( ) ( ) Deferred taxes ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes, net $ $ , $ . and international components income before income taxes are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , . $ , $ , $ , International ( ) ( ) ( , ) Income (loss) before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Income taxes computed the federal statutory rate $ $ , $ , Effect : Impact foreign tax differential ( ) , State taxes, net federal benefits Tax credits ( ) ( ) ( ) Stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) Domestic production activities deduction ( ) ( ) — Impact Tax Act — — ( ) Other, net Total $ $ , $ ___________________ ( ) Includes non-deductible stock-based compensation and beginning , excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. For , our tax provision includes $ billion excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Our provision for income taxes was higher than primarily due increase . pre-tax income, partially offset increase the proportion foreign losses for which may realize tax benefit, increase tax amortization deductions, and decline the proportion nondeductible expenses. have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which may not realize related tax benefit. Our provision for income taxes was lower than primarily due excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and the provisional favorable effect the Tax Act, partially offset increase the proportion foreign losses for which may not realize tax benefit and audit-related developments. regularly assess whether more likely than not that will realize our deferred tax assets each taxing jurisdiction which operate. performing this assessment with respect each jurisdiction, review all available evidence, including recent cumulative loss experience and expectations future earnings, capital gains, and investment such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. , recognized estimated charge tax expense $ million record valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets Luxembourg. The Tax Act includes mandatory one-time tax accumulated earnings foreign subsidiaries, and result, all previously unremitted earnings for which . deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject . tax. Notwithstanding the . taxation these amounts, intend continue invest most all these earnings, well our capital these subsidiaries, indefinitely outside the . and not expect incur any significant, additional taxes related such amounts. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are follows ( millions): December , ( ) Deferred tax assets ( ): Loss carryforwards . - Federal States ( ) $ $ Loss carryforwards - Foreign ( ) , , Accrued liabilities, reserves, & other expenses Stock-based compensation , , Deferred revenue Assets held for investment Depreciation & amortization Other items Tax credits ( ) Total gross deferred tax assets , , Less valuation allowance ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance , , Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation & amortization ( , ) ( , ) Acquisition related intangible assets ( ) ( ) Other items ( ) ( ) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities), net valuation allowance $ $ ( ) ___________________ ( ) Deferred tax assets related net operating losses and tax credits are presented net tax contingencies. ( ) Excluding $ million deferred tax assets December , , related net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation. Beginning , losses resulting from excess stock-based compensation are now recognized immediately result the adoption new accounting guidance. ( ) Excluding $ million deferred tax assets December , , related net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation. Beginning , losses resulting from excess stock-based compensation are now recognized immediately result the adoption new accounting guidance. ( ) Excluding $ million deferred tax assets December , , related tax credits that result from excess stock-based compensation. Beginning , losses resulting from excess stock-based compensation are now recognized immediately result the adoption new accounting guidance. ( ) Relates primarily deferred tax assets that would only realizable upon the generation net income certain foreign taxing jurisdictions and future capital gains. ( ) recorded provisional adjustment our federal deferred income tax assets and liabilities December , reflect the reduction the . statutory federal corporate tax rate from % % resulting from the Tax Act. December , , our federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $ million , $ billion , and $ million . The federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards are subject limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code and applicable foreign and state tax law. not utilized, portion the federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin expire , , and , respectively. December , , our tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $ billion . not utilized, portion the tax credit carryforwards will begin expire . December , , our federal capital loss carryforwards for income tax purposes was approximately $ million . not utilized, portion the capital loss carryforwards will begin expire . Tax Contingencies are subject income taxes the . (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based estimates whether, and the extent which, additional taxes will due. These reserves are established when believe that certain positions might challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. adjust these reserves light changing facts and circumstances, such the outcome tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact reserve provisions and changes reserves that are considered appropriate. The reconciliation our tax contingencies follows ( millions): December , Gross tax contingencies – January $ $ , $ , Gross increases tax positions prior periods Gross decreases tax positions prior periods ( ) ( ) ( ) Gross increases current period tax positions Lapse statute limitations ( ) ( ) ( ) Gross tax contingencies – December ( ) $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) December , , had $ billion accrued tax contingencies, which $ billion , fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. December , and , had accrued interest and penalties, net federal income tax benefit, related tax contingencies $ million and $ million . Interest and penalties, net federal income tax benefit, recognized for the years ended December , , , and was $ million , $ million , and $ million . are under examination, may subject examination, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the calendar year and thereafter. These examinations may lead ordinary course adjustments proposed adjustments our taxes our net operating losses with respect years under examination well subsequent periods. previously disclosed, have received Notices Proposed Adjustment (“NOPAs”) from the IRS for transactions undertaken the and calendar years relating transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries. The IRS seeking increase our . taxable income amount that would result additional federal tax approximately $ billion , subject interest. March , , the . Tax Court issued its decision regarding the issues raised the IRS NOPAs. The Tax Court rejected the approach from the IRS NOPAs determining transfer pricing adjustments and for the transactions undertaken with our foreign subsidiaries and adopted, with adjustments, our suggested approach. September , , the IRS filed notice appeal the . Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. will continue defend ourselves vigorously this matter. the Tax Court decision were reversed appeal the IRS were successfully assert transfer pricing adjustments similar nature the NOPAs for transactions subsequent years, could subject significant additional tax liabilities. Certain our subsidiaries were under examination investigation the French Tax Administration (“FTA”) for calendar year and thereafter. September , received proposed tax assessment notices for calendar years through relating the allocation income between foreign jurisdictions. June , received final tax collection notices for these years assessing additional French taxes, interest, and penalties through September . December , settled this dispute with the FTA and included the impact thereof within our financial statements. addition, October , the European Commission opened formal investigation examine whether decisions the tax authorities Luxembourg with regard the corporate income tax paid certain our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules state aid. October , , the European Commission announced its decision that determinations the tax authorities Luxembourg did not comply with European Union rules state aid. This decision orders Luxembourg calculate and recover additional taxes from for the period May through June . believe this decision without merit and will consider our legal options, including appeal. December , Luxembourg appealed the European Commission’ decision. While the European Commission announced estimated recovery amount approximately € million , plus interest, the actual amount additional taxes subject recovery calculated the Luxembourg tax authorities accordance with the European Commission’ guidance. Once the recovery amount computed Luxembourg, anticipate funding , including interest, into escrow, where will remain pending conclusion all appeals. may required fund into escrow amount excess the estimated recovery amount announced the European Commission. are also subject taxation various states and other foreign jurisdictions including Canada, China, Germany, India, Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. are under, may subject , audit examination and additional assessments the relevant authorities respect these particular jurisdictions primarily for and thereafter. expect the total amount tax contingencies will grow . addition, changes state, federal, and foreign tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. The timing the resolution income tax examinations highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, any, upon resolution the issues raised the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. reasonably possible that within the next months will receive additional assessments various tax authorities possibly reach resolution income tax examinations one more jurisdictions. These assessments settlements could result changes our contingencies related positions tax filings years through . The actual amount any change could vary significantly depending the ultimate timing and nature any settlements. cannot currently provide estimate the range possible outcomes. Note —SEGMENT INFORMATION have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. allocate segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative” based usage, which generally reflected the segment which the costs are incurred. The majority technology infrastructure costs are allocated the AWS segment based usage. The majority the remaining non-infrastructure technology costs are incurred the . and are allocated our North America segment. , combined stock-based compensation and “Other operating expense, net” with operating expenses our presentation segment results. The results Whole Foods Market are included our North America and International segments based physical location. There are internal revenue transactions between our reportable segments. These segments reflect the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company’ business performance and manages its operations. North America The North America segment primarily consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such www amazon com, www amazon , and www amazon com . This segment includes export sales from these websites. International The International segment primarily consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally-focused websites such www amazon com , www amazon com , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon . This segment includes export sales from these internationally-focused websites (including export sales from these sites customers the ., Mexico, and Canada), but excludes export sales from our North American websites. AWS The AWS segment consists amounts earned from global sales compute, storage, database, and other service offerings for start-ups, enterprises, government agencies, and academic institutions. Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income (loss) follows ( millions): Year Ended December , North America Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses , , , Operating income $ , $ , $ , International Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses , , , Operating income (loss) $ ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) AWS Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses , , , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Consolidated Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Total non-operating income (expense) ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes ( ) ( , ) ( ) Equity-method investment activity, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income $ $ , $ , Net sales groups similar products and services follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Net Sales: Online stores ( ) $ , $ , $ , Physical stores ( ) — — , Third-party seller services ( ) , , , Subscription services ( ) , , , AWS , , , Other ( ) , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Includes product sales and digital media content where record revenue gross. leverage our retail infrastructure offer wide selection consumable and durable goods that includes media products available both physical and digital format, such books, music, videos, games, and software. These product sales include digital products sold transactional basis. Digital product subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing usage rights are included Subscription services. ( ) Includes product sales where our customers physically select items store. ( ) Includes commissions, related fulfillment and shipping fees, and other third-party seller services. ( ) Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime membership, well audiobook, -book, digital video, digital music, and other non-AWS subscription services. ( ) Includes sales not otherwise included above, such certain advertising services and our -branded credit card agreements. Net sales generated from our internationally-focused websites are denominated local functional currencies. Revenues are translated average rates prevailing throughout the period. Net sales attributed countries that represent significant portion consolidated net sales are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , United States $ , $ , $ , Germany , , , United Kingdom , , , Japan , , , Rest world , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Total segment assets exclude corporate assets, such cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, other long-term investments, corporate facilities, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, capitalized internal-use software and website development costs, and tax assets. Technology infrastructure assets are allocated among the segments based usage, with the majority allocated the AWS segment. Total segment assets reconciled consolidated amounts are follows ( millions): December , North America ( ) $ , $ , $ , International ( ) , , , AWS ( ) , , , Corporate , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) North America and International segment assets primarily consist property and equipment, inventory, and accounts receivable. ( ) AWS segment assets primarily consist property and equipment and accounts receivable. Property and equipment, net segment follows ( millions): December , North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , AWS , , , Corporate , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Total net additions property and equipment segment are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , North America ( ) $ , $ , $ , International ( ) , , AWS ( ) , , , Corporate , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Includes property and equipment added under capital leases $ million , $ billion , and $ billion , , and , and under other financing arrangements $ million , $ million , and $ billion , , and . ( ) Includes property and equipment added under capital leases $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and , and under finance leases $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . . property and equipment, net was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , , and , and rest world property and equipment, net was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . Except for the ., property and equipment, net, any single country was less than % consolidated property and equipment, net. Depreciation expense, including amortization capitalized internal-use software and website development costs and other corporate property and equipment depreciation expense, are allocated all segments based usage. Total depreciation expense, segment, follows ( millions): Year Ended December , North America $ , $ , $ , International , AWS , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Note —QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter and . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are follows ( millions, except per share data): Year Ended December , ( ) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income (loss) Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted Year Ended December , ( ) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter ( ) Fourth Quarter ( ) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , Income before income taxes , Provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income (loss) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted ___________________ ( ) The sum quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due the effects rounding and changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. ( ) acquired Whole Foods Market August , . The results Whole Foods Market have been included our results operation from the date acquisition. See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets” for additional information regarding this transaction. ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures carried out evaluation required the Securities Exchange Act (the “ Act”), under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act, December , . Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, December , , our disclosure controls and procedures were effective provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the reports that file submit under the Act recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified the SEC’ rules and forms and provide reasonable assurance that such information accumulated and communicated our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management’ Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting December , based criteria established Internal Control—Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. result this assessment, management concluded that, December , , our internal control over financial reporting was effective providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young has independently assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting and its report included below. Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December , that materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations Controls Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed provide reasonable assurance achieving their objectives specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our disclosure controls and procedures our internal control over financial reporting will prevent detect all error and fraud. Any control system, matter how well designed and operated, based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will met. Further, evaluation controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due error fraud will not occur that all control issues and instances fraud, any, within the Company have been detected. Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Amazon com, Inc. Opinion Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting have audited Amazon com, Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (the COSO criteria). our opinion, Amazon com, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , Amazon com, Inc. and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion The Company’ management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management’ Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based our audit. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations Internal Control Over Financial Reporting company’ internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. / / Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington February , ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information Disclosure Pursuant Section ( ) the Exchange Act determined that, between January and December , processed and delivered orders consumer products for certain individuals and entities located outside Iran covered the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act (“ITRA”), addition those have previously disclosed, follows: consumer products valued approximately $ for two Iranian embassies located countries other than Iran; consumer products valued approximately $ , for individuals who may have been acting for Iranian embassies and diplomatic organizations located countries other than Iran; consumer products valued approximately $ , for individuals and entities who are designated under Executive Order Executive Order ; consumer products valued approximately $ , for individuals who may have been acting for individuals and entities designated under Executive Order Executive Order , three which are owned controlled the Iranian government; and consumer products valued approximately $ , for individuals who may have been acting for seven entities owned controlled the Iranian government. The consumer products included books, other media, apparel, home and kitchen, jewelry, office, toys, health and beauty, consumer electronics, lawn and patio, automotive, musical instruments, software, grocery, and pet products. addition, the information provided pursuant Section ( ) the Exchange Act Item Part the Company’ Quarterly Reports - for the quarters ended March , , June , , and September , are hereby incorporated reference such reports. are unable accurately calculate the net profit attributable these transactions. not plan continue selling these accounts the future. Our review ongoing and are enhancing our processes designed identify transactions associated with individuals and entities covered the ITRA. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part “Business—Executive Officers the Registrant.” Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors and any material changes the process which security holders may recommend nominees the Board Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating our Code Business Conduct and Ethics and compliance with Section ( ) the Act set forth our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. the extent permissible under Nasdaq rules, intend disclose amendments our Code Business Conduct and Ethics, well waivers the provisions thereof, our investor relations website under the heading “Corporate Governance” www amazon com . ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Comprehensive Income for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Stockholders’ Equity for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: All schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, because not required. ( ) Index Exhibits See exhibits listed under Part ( ) below. ( ) Exhibits: Exhibit Number Description * † † † † † † † + The following financial statements from the Company’ Annual Report Form - for the year ended December , , formatted XBRL: ( ) Consolidated Statements Cash Flows, ( ) Consolidated Statements Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statements Comprehensive Income, ( ) Consolidated Balance Sheets, ( ) Consolidated Statements Stockholders’ Equity, and ( ) Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, tagged blocks text and including detailed tags. permitted Item ( )( )(iii)( ) Regulation - , the Company has not filed with this Annual Report Form - certain instruments defining the rights holders long-term debt the Company and its subsidiaries because the total amount securities authorized thereunder does not exceed percent the total assets the Company and its subsidiaries consolidated basis. The Company agrees furnish copy such agreements the Commission upon request. __________________ * Certain schedules and exhibits this agreement have been omitted pursuant Item ( )( ) Regulation - and the Company agrees furnish supplementally the Securities and Exchange Commission copy any omitted schedule and exhibit upon request. † Executive Compensation Plan Agreement. + Portions this exhibit have been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant request for confidential treatment. ', 'item 16. ': 'Form - Summary None. '}