{'item 1. ': 'Business This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based expectations, estimates, and projections the date this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See Item Part \x97\x94Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Forward-Looking Statements.\x94 Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated the state Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. completed our initial public offering May and our common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 used herein, \x93Amazon com,\x94 \x93 ,\x94 \x93our\x94 and similar terms include Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. General Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July and today offers Earth\x92 Biggest Selection. seek Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want buy online, and endeavor offer customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon com and its affiliates operate seven retail websites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com . have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. The North America segment includes the operating results www amazon com and www amazon . The International segment includes the operating results www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com . addition, operate www com and www alexa com that enable search and navigation, and www imdb com , comprehensive movie database. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Segment Information.\x94 Business Strategy Our business strategy relentlessly focus customer experience offering our customers low prices, convenience, and wide selection merchandise. Price endeavor offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and free shipping offers. also strive improve our operating efficiencies that can pass along the associated savings our customers the form lower prices. enable third-party sellers offer products our sites, many instances alongside our product selection, and set their own retail prices. Convenience Our software engineers, computer scientists, and management team focus continuous innovation provide further convenience for our customers. work earn repeat purchases providing easy- -use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, timely customer service, feature rich content, and trusted transaction environment. Key features our websites include editorial and customer reviews; manufacturer product information; Web pages tailored individual preferences, such recommendations and notifications; -Click ® technology; secure payment systems; image uploads; searching our websites well the Internet; browsing; and the ability view selected interior pages and citations, and search the entire contents many the books offer with our \x93Look Inside the Book\x94 and \x93Search Inside the Book\x94 features. Our community online customers also creates feature-rich content, including product reviews, online recommendation lists, wish lists, buying guides, and wedding and baby registries. endeavor fulfill customer orders quickly, and provide intuitive self-service features that assist our customers when they have questions. communicate our fulfillment promise several ways, such presenting - -date inventory availability information, delivery date estimates, and options for expedited delivery, well delivery shipment notifications. Additionally, customers can use the \x93your account\x94 website features track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel unshipped items, change delivery instructions and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options, and return items. fulfill customer orders number ways, including through our . and international fulfillment centers and warehouses; through fulfillment centers operated under -sourcing arrangements, including our fulfillment center supporting www amazon ; through outsourced fulfillment providers, including our fulfillment provider supporting www amazon ; and through other third-party fulfillment arrangements. operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented several -sourcing customer service arrangements with third parties. See Item Part , \x93Properties,\x94 for additional information about fulfillment centers and customer service locations. Selection provide the widest possible selection for our customers worldwide, have designed our websites enable millions unique products sold and third parties across dozens product categories such : \x95 Apparel, shoes, and accessories \x95 Home, garden, and outdoor living products \x95 Baby care products \x95 Jewelry and watches \x95 Books \x95 Kitchenware and housewares \x95 Beauty \x95 Magazine subscriptions \x95 Camera and photography \x95 Music and musical instruments \x95 Cell phones and service \x95 Office products \x95 Computers and computer add-ons \x95 Software \x95 Consumer electronics \x95 Sports and outdoors \x95 DVD\x92 , including rentals, and videos \x95 Tools and hardware \x95 Gourmet food \x95 Toys and video games \x95 Health and personal care Amazon com Retail source and sell broad range products our customers worldwide across dozens product categories. Additionally, through our Syndicated Stores program, utilize our -commerce services, features, and technologies sell our products through other businesses\x92 websites, such www borders com . Third-Party Sellers Through Amazon Services, offer Amazon Marketplace and Merchants@ programs that enable third parties sell their products our websites, allow customers shop for products owned third parties using our features and technologies, and allow individuals complete transactions that include multiple sellers single checkout process. are not the seller record these third-party seller transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. Amazon Marketplace generally serves individuals and small businesses, enabling them offer their products for sale our websites alongside our products and products made available other third-party sellers. Our Merchants@ program generally serves larger, branded businesses and primarily focused expanding the selection new products available our websites. also sometimes offer fulfillment-related services under our Merchants@ program. Other Services Through Amazon Services Merchant com program utilize our -commerce services, features, and technologies operate another business\x92 website, sell its products under its brand name and website address, and sometimes offer fulfillment services ( example www target com ). also provide marketing and promotional services, such sponsored search, and have -branded credit card agreement. Marketing and Promotion Our marketing strategy designed increase customer traffic our websites, drive awareness our products and services, promote repeat purchases, develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities, and strengthen and broaden the Amazon com brand name. believe our most effective marketing efforts result from our focus continuously improving the customer experience, which drives word- -mouth promotion and repeat customer visits. also deliver personalized Web pages and services and employ variety media, business development activities, and promotional methods. employ various means advertising, which consist primarily online advertising, including through our Associates and Syndicated Stores programs, sponsored search, portal advertising, -mail campaigns, and other initiatives. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors and other third parties. Our Associates program directs customers our websites enabling independent websites make millions products available their audiences with fulfillment performed third parties. pay commissions hundreds thousands participants our Associates program when their customer referrals result product sales. addition, offer everyday free shipping options worldwide and recently announced Amazon com Prime the ., our first membership program which members receive free two-day shipping and discounted overnight shipping. Although marketing expenses not include the costs our free shipping promotional offers, view such offers effective marketing tools. Technology Using primarily our own proprietary technologies, well technology licensed from third parties, have implemented numerous features and functionality that simplify and improve the customer shopping experience, enable third parties sell our platform, and facilitate our fulfillment and customer service operations. Our current strategy focus our development efforts continuous innovation creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique our business, and license acquire commercially-developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. continually invest several areas technology, including our seller platform; com, our wholly-owned subsidiary focused search technology www com and other Amazon sites; web services; and digital initiatives. use set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory customer orders, and ensuring proper shipment products customers. Our transaction-processing systems handle millions items, number different status inquiries, multiple shipping addresses, gift-wrapping requests, and multiple shipment methods. These systems allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability and track the progress each order. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing, and charging customer credit cards. Competition The environment for our products and services intensely competitive. Our current and potential competitors include: ( ) physical-world retailers, catalog retailers, publishers, vendors, distributors and manufacturers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume, and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order, direct marketing; ( ) other online -commerce sites; ( ) number indirect competitors, including media companies, Web portals, comparison shopping websites, and Web search engines, either directly collaboration with other retailers; and ( ) companies that provide -commerce services, including website development; third-party fulfillment and customer-service. believe that the principal competitive factors our market segments include selection, price, availability, convenience, information, discovery, brand recognition, personalized services, accessibility, customer service, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use, and ability adapt changing conditions, well our customers\x92 overall experience and trust transactions with and facilitated behalf third-party sellers. For services offer business and individual sellers, additional competitive factors include the quality our services and tools, our ability generate sales for third parties serve, and the speed performance for our services. Other companies also may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others protect our proprietary rights. have registered number domain names and been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents, and copyrights . and foreign governmental authorities. also have applied for the registration other trademarks, service marks, domain names, and copyrights the . and internationally, and have filed . and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patents, technologies copyrighted materials, third parties. Seasonality Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Employees employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees December , . However, employment levels fluctuate due seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel seasonal basis. None our employees represented labor union and consider our employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel our industry intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. believe that our future success will depend part our continued ability attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel. Available Information Our investor relations website www amazon com . make available this website under \x93Financial Documents,\x94 free charge, our annual reports Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and amendments those reports soon reasonably practicable after electronically file furnish such materials the . Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94). Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could materially adversely affected. Have Accumulated Deficit and May Incur Additional Losses have incurred significant net losses since began doing business. December , , had accumulated deficit $ billion and our stockholders\x92 deficit was $ million. have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception, and although earned net income for the years ended December , and , may incur losses again the future. Have Significant Indebtedness December , , had long-term indebtedness $ billion. make annual semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our two convertible notes, which are due and . Although made debt principal reduction payments over the last two years, may incur substantial additional debt the future, and any event significant portion our future cash flow from operating activities likely remain dedicated the payment interest and the repayment principal our indebtedness. Our indebtedness could limit our ability obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions other purposes the future, needed; plan for, react , changes technology and our business and competition; and react the event economic downturn. There guarantee that will able meet our debt service obligations. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with covenants our indebtedness, will default. addition, may not able refinance our indebtedness terms acceptable , all. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Face Intense Competition The market segments which compete are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and have many competitors different industries, including both the retail and -commerce services industries. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, and significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors both the retail and -commerce services industries also may able devote more resources technology development, fulfillment, and marketing than . Competition the -commerce channel may intensify. Other companies the retail and -commerce service industries may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may expand into the market segments which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies may further intensify the competitive nature online retail. The nature the Internet electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating profits, both. Our Expansion Will Place Significant Strain our Management, Operational and Financial Resources are rapidly and significantly expanding our operations both domestically and internationally and will continue expand further pursue growth our product and service offerings and customer base. Such expansion increases the complexity our business and places significant strain our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions, and there can assurance that will able manage effectively. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations, especially employ personnel multiple geographic locations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth. any this were occur, could damage our reputation, limit our growth, negatively affect our operating results and harm our business. Our Expansion into New Product Areas and Geographic Regions Subjects Business and Competitive Risks not expect benefit our newer market segments, whether products, services new geographic areas, from the first- -market advantage that experienced the . online book channel. Our gross profits our newer business activities may lower than our older business activities. addition, may have limited experience new product and service activities and new geographic areas, and our customers may not favorably receive our new businesses. Our newer market segments may present special technology challenges that have not faced before. the extent pursue commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic alliances facilitate new product service activities geographic expansion, the agreements, acquisitions and alliances may not successful. any this were occur, could damage our reputation, limit our growth, negatively affect our operating results and harm our business. May Experience Significant Fluctuations Our Operating Results and Rate Growth Due our limited operating history, our evolving business model, and the unpredictability our industry, may not able accurately forecast our rate growth. base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans estimates future net sales and rate growth. Our expenses and investments are large extent fixed, and may not able adjust our spending quickly enough our net sales fall short our expectations. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends the continued growth demand for the products offered our sellers, and our business affected general economic and business conditions throughout the world. softening demand, whether caused changes consumer preferences weakening the . global economies, may result decreased revenue growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities create economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth. Such events could create delays , and increase the cost , product shipments, which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not sustainable and our company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease the future. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including: \x95 our ability retain and increase sales existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers\x92 demands; \x95 our ability expand our network sellers, and enter into, maintain, renew, and amend favorable terms our commercial agreements and strategic alliances; \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations, particularly international sales become increasingly larger contributor our revenues; \x95 our ability acquire merchandise, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; \x95 the introduction our current future competitors websites, products, services, price decreases, improvements; \x95 changes usage the Internet and -commerce, including non- . markets; \x95 timing, effectiveness, and costs upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure; \x95 the effects commercial agreements and strategic alliances and our ability successfully implement the underlying relationships and integrate them into our business; \x95 the effects acquisitions, and other business combinations and our ability successfully integrate them into our business; \x95 the success our geographic and product line expansions; \x95 technical difficulties, system downtime, interruptions; \x95 variations the mix products and services sell; \x95 variations our level merchandise and vendor returns; \x95 disruptions service shipping carriers; \x95 the extent which offer free shipping, continue reduce product prices worldwide, and provide additional benefits our customers which reduce our gross operating profits; \x95 the extent invest technology and content, fulfillment, marketing and other expense categories; \x95 the extent which provide for and pay taxes; and \x95 increase the prices fuel and gasoline, which are used the transportation packages, well increase the prices other energy products, primarily natural gas and electricity, and commodities like paper and packing supplies, all which are used our operating facilities. Finally, both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and sales almost all our product groups, particularly toys and electronics, usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. May Not Successful Our Efforts Expand into International Market Segments Our international activities have become increasingly significant our revenues and profits and plan, over time, continue expand our reach international market segments. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing, and distributing products services for these market segments and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally and develop localized websites, stores, and other systems. may not succeed these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset the expense establishing and maintaining the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not profitable sustained basis. Our international sales and related operations are subject number risks inherent selling abroad, including, but not limited , risks with respect : \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations; \x95 local economic and political conditions; \x95 restrictive governmental actions (such trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs) and restrictions the level foreign ownership; \x95 restrictions sales certain products services and uncertainty regarding our liability for the products services offer and content provided our users, including uncertainty result less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the distribution media products and enforcement intellectual property rights; \x95 import, export other business licensing requirements; \x95 limitations the repatriation funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; \x95 difficulty obtaining distribution and support; \x95 nationalization restrictions foreign ownership; \x95 shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact cash flow; \x95 consumer and data protection laws and restrictions pricing discounts; \x95 lower levels adoption use the Internet and other technologies vital our business and the lack appropriate infrastructure support widespread Internet usage; \x95 lower levels consumer spending per capita basis and fewer opportunities for growth certain foreign market segments compared the .; \x95 lower levels credit card usage and increased payment risk; \x95 difficulty staffing, developing and managing number unique foreign operations result distance, language and cultural differences; \x95 different employee employer relationships and the existence workers\x92 councils and labor unions; \x95 laws and policies the . and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, and loans; \x95 tax and other laws the . and other jurisdictions; and \x95 geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. the international -commerce channel continues grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may have substantial competitive advantage because their greater understanding , and focus , the local customer, well their more established local brand name recognition. addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate -commerce other online services such areas licenses, content, privacy, network security, copyright, encryption, taxation, distribution. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth international market segments. Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Harmed not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, could significantly limit our ability meet customer demand. Because difficult predict demand, may not manage our facilities optimal way, which may result excess insufficient inventory, and warehousing, fulfillment, and distribution capacity. failure optimize inventory our fulfillment network will increase our net shipping cost requiring make long-zone shipments partial shipments from one more locations. Orders from several our internationally-focused websites are fulfilled primarily from single fulfillment center, and have only limited ability reroute orders third parties for drop-shipping. and our -sourcers may unable adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers. continue add fulfillment and warehouse capability add new businesses with different fulfillment requirements, operating our fulfillment network becomes more challenging and there can assurance that will able operate our network effectively. rely limited number shipping companies deliver inventory our fulfillment centers and completed orders our customers. are not able negotiate acceptable terms with these companies they experience performance problems other difficulties, could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. addition, our ability receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders customers also may negatively affected inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts war terrorism, acts God and similar factors. Third parties either drop-ship otherwise fulfill increasing portion our customers\x92 orders, and are increasingly reliant the reliability, quality, and future procurement their services. Under some our commercial agreements, maintain the inventory other companies our fulfillment centers, thereby increasing the complexity tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure properly handle such inventory the inability failure these other companies accurately forecast product demand would result unexpected costs and other harm our business and reputation. The Seasonality Our Business Places Increased Strain Our Operations expect disproportionate amount our net sales realized during the fourth quarter our fiscal year. not stock popular products sufficient amounts fail have sources timely restock popular products, such that fail meet customer demand, could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory markdowns write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. failure optimize inventory our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins requiring make long-zone shipments partial shipments from one more locations. Orders from several our internationally-focused websites are fulfilled primarily from single fulfillment center, and have only limited ability reroute orders third parties for drop-shipping. may experience increase our net shipping cost due complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery, especially for the holiday season. the other businesses whose behalf perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product our fulfillment centers excess forecasts, may unable secure sufficient storage space and may unable optimize our fulfillment centers. too many customers access our websites within short period time due increased holiday other demand, may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. addition, may unable adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services our customers may unable meet the seasonal demand. Finally, , along with our customer service -sourcers, may unable adequately staff customer service centers. generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount time necessary collect proceeds from our customers. result holiday sales, December each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than result cash flows provided used investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results corresponding increase accounts payable. Our accounts payable balance should decline during the first three months following year-end, which will result decline the amount cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities hand. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships may enter into commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and other business relationships with other companies. have entered into agreements provide -commerce services other businesses and plan enter into similar agreements the future, including part our Merchants@, Syndicated Stores, and Merchant com initiatives. Under such agreements, may perform services such : providing our technology services such search, browse, and personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals offer products services through our websites; and powering third-party websites, either with without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These arrangements are complex and require substantial personnel and resource commitments , which may constrain the number such agreements are able enter into and may affect our ability integrate and deliver services under the relevant agreements. fail implement, maintain, and develop successfully the various components such commercial relationships, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, licensing third party software, hardware, and content, and engaging third parties perform hosting and other services, these initiatives may not viable. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements partially dependent the volume sales that the other company makes. Therefore, the other business\x92 website product services offering not successful, may not receive all the compensation are otherwise due under the agreement may not able maintain the agreement. Moreover, may not able succeed our plans enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances favorable terms. our commercial agreements expire otherwise terminate, may unable renew replace these agreements comparable terms, all. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term our commercial agreements, both. Some our agreements involve high margin services, such marketing and promotional agreements, and such agreements expire they may replaced, all, agreements involving lower margin services. addition, several past commercial agreements were with companies that experienced business failures and were unable meet their obligations . may the future enter into further amendments our commercial agreements encounter other parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations , which could adversely affect our operating results. example, are currently litigation with Toysrus com over our commercial agreement, and Toyrus com\x92 parent, Toysrus, Inc., has experienced financial difficulties and announced that may sell its toy business. the event the early termination our commercial agreement with Toysrus com, would attempt replace the product selection currently provided Toysrus com with owned inventory and offerings from other parties, but our operating results could negatively impacted. Our present and future third-party services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 impairment other relationships; \x95 variability revenue and income from entering into, amending, terminating such agreements relationships; and \x95 difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments have acquired and invested number companies, including our acquisition Joyo com September , and may acquire invest (such through joint ventures other business combinations) additional companies. Acquisitions and investments create risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 declining employee morale and problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel, resulting from, among other factors, changes compensation, responsibilities, reporting relationships, future prospects, and the direction the business; \x95 additional operating losses and expenses the businesses acquired which invested; \x95 the potential impairment amounts capitalized intangible assets part the acquisition; \x95 the potential impairment relationships with customers and other parties the company acquired which invested our own customers result any integration operations; \x95 the difficulty incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and unanticipated expenses related such integration; \x95 the difficulty integrating new company\x92 accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems permit effective management, and the lack control such integration delayed not implemented; \x95 the difficulty implementing controls, procedures and policies appropriate for larger public company companies that prior acquisition investment had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; \x95 potential unknown liabilities associated with company acquire which invest; and \x95 for foreign acquisitions and investments, additional risks related the integration operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks, and the particular economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Finally, result future acquisitions mergers, might need issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related intangible assets, any which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. Our Recent Acquisition Joyo com Creates Risks and Uncertainties Relating the Laws the People\x92 Republic China September, , acquired Joyo com, company organized under the laws the British Virgin Islands. Joyo com operates www joyo com and www joyo com the People\x92 Republic China (\x93PRC\x94) cooperation with PRC subsidiary and PRC affiliates and subject many the risks described \x93Our Business Could Suffer are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments\x94 and \x93 May Not Successful Our Efforts Expand into International Market Segments.\x94 addition, the PRC regulates Joyo com\x92 business through regulations and license requirements restricting ( ) the scope foreign investment the Internet, retail and delivery sectors, ( ) Internet content and (iii) the sale certain media products. order meet the PRC local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, Joyo com\x92 business operated through PRC subsidiary which acts cooperation with PRC companies owned nominee shareholders who are PRC nationals. Although believe Joyo com\x92 structure complies with existing PRC laws, involves unique risks. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation PRC laws and regulations, and possible that the PRC government will ultimately take view contrary ours. Joyo com its subsidiary affiliates were found violation any existing future PRC laws regulations interpretations those laws and regulations were change, the business could subject fines and other financial penalties, have its licenses revoked forced shut down entirely. addition, Joyo com were unable enforce its contractual relationships with respect management and control its business, might unable continue operate the business. Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. have expanded our international operations, our exposure exchange rates fluctuations has become more pronounced. Net sales from our international segment represented % our total net sales , compared % and % . See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x96 Results Operations \x96 Effect Exchange Rates\x94 for table demonstrating the effect our consolidated statements operations from changes exchange rates versus the . Dollar. addition, our % PEACS are denominated Euros, not . Dollars. remeasure the principal the % PEACS quarterly based fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio and record gains losses \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. result, increases the Euro relative the . Dollar increase the . dollar amount owe interest and principal. Furthermore, hold cash equivalents and marketable securities Euros, British Pounds, Yen, Canadian Dollars and Chinese Yuan. Accordingly, the . Dollar strengthens compared these currencies, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, when translated, may materially less than expected and vice versa. Our Investments and the Consideration Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Number Risks the past, have entered into commercial agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances whereby perform certain -commerce services, and exchange for our services received cash, equity securities these companies, and additional benefits, such website traffic. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements dependent the volume sales made the other company. some cases, have also made separate investments the other company making cash payment exchange for equity securities that company. may make similar investments the future. the extent have received equity securities compensation, fluctuations the value such securities will affect our ultimate realization amounts have received compensation for services. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term our commercial agreements, both. may the future enter into further amendments our commercial agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded ( any), the timing revenue recognition these recorded unearned amounts was changed correspond with the terms the amended agreements. the extent believe any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, limit our revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Our investments equity securities are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 and \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. regularly review all our investments public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines fair value. When determine that the decline fair value investment below our accounting basis other-than-temporary, reduce the carrying value the securities hold and record loss the amount any such decline. recent years, securities companies the Internet and -commerce industries have experienced significant difficulties. may conclude future quarters that the fair values our investments have experienced additional other-than-temporary declines. December , , our recorded basis equity securities was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other assets.\x94 The Loss Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board. not have \x93key person\x94 life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. System Interruption and the Lack Integration and Redundancy Our Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access our websites directly affects the volume goods sell and the services offer and thus affects our net sales. experience occasional system interruptions that make our websites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders providing services third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness our products and services. are unable continually add additional software and hardware and upgrade effective manner our systems and network infrastructure, could cause system interruption and adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and communications systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts war terrorism, acts God, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, and similar events disruptions. Any these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss critical data, and could prevent from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, would make our product offerings less attractive our customers and our service offerings less attractive third parties. While have backup systems for certain aspects our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. addition, may have inadequate insurance coverage insurance limits compensate for losses from major interruption. any this were occur, could damage our reputation and expensive remedy. Face Significant Inventory Risk are exposed significant inventory risks result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and changes consumer tastes with respect our products. order successful, must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking under-stocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling new product, may difficult establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product selection, and accurately forecast product demand. failure optimize inventory within our fulfillment network will increase our net shipping cost requiring make split shipments from one more locations, complimentary upgrades, and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery. result our third-party services relationships with Toysrus com, Babiesrus com, Target, and other companies, these parties identify, buy, and bear the financial risk inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. result, any these parties fail forecast product demand optimize maintain access inventory, would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could harmed. The acquisition certain types inventory, inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels certain products, such consumer electronics, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. Any one the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. May Not Able Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights May Accused Infringing Intellectual Property Rights Third Parties regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available online. also may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon, diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use our proprietary rights inherently difficult, and may not able determine the existence extent any such unauthorized use. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, cannot certain that the steps take protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights that others will not independently develop otherwise acquire equivalent superior technology other intellectual property rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. addition, the steps take protect our proprietary rights may not adequate and third parties may infringe misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents, and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that infringed their proprietary rights. have been subject , and expect continue subject , claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement the patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the imposition damages that must pay. may need obtain licenses from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not available terms acceptable all. addition, may not able obtain utilize terms that are favorable , all, licenses other rights with respect intellectual property not own providing -commerce services other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. Have Limited Operating History and Our Stock Price Highly Volatile have relatively short operating history and, -commerce company, have rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : \x95 general economic conditions; \x95 changes interest rates; \x95 conditions trends the Internet and the -commerce industry; \x95 fluctuations the stock market general and market prices for Internet-related companies particular; \x95 quarterly variations operating results; \x95 new products, services, innovations, and strategic developments our competitors , business combinations and investments our competitors ; \x95 changes financial estimates securities analysts and recommendations securities analysts; \x95 changes Internet regulation; \x95 changes our capital structure, including issuance additional debt equity the public; \x95 additions departures key personnel; \x95 corporate restructurings, including layoffs closures facilities; \x95 changes the valuation methodology , performance , other -commerce companies; and \x95 transactions our common stock major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. Any these events may cause our stock price rise fall and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. Future volatility our stock price could force increase our cash compensation employees grant larger stock awards than have historically, which could hurt our operating results reduce the percentage ownership our existing stockholders, both. Government Regulation the Internet and -commerce Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business are subject general business regulations and laws, well regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and -commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality products and services. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply the Internet and -commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate \x93auctions\x94 and \x93auctioneers\x94 and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate other consumer- -consumer online markets, including certain aspects Amazon Marketplace. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. Taxation Risks Could Subject Liability for Past Sales and Cause Our Future Sales Decrease not collect sales taxes other taxes with respect shipments most our goods into states other than Washington, North Dakota, and Kansas. Under some our commercial agreements, the other company the seller record the applicable merchandise and are obligated collect sales tax most states accordance with that company\x92 instructions. may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion those networks, along with other aspects our evolving business, may result additional sales and other tax obligations. collect consumption tax (including value added tax, goods and services tax, and provincial sales tax) applicable goods and services sold that are ordered our international sites. One more states foreign countries may seek impose sales other tax collection obligations out- -jurisdiction companies that engage -commerce. successful assertion one more states foreign countries that should collect sales other taxes the sale merchandise services could result substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions the . Supreme Court restrict the imposition obligations collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect sales made over the Internet. However, number states, well the . Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit supersede the Supreme Court\x92 position regarding sales and use taxes Internet sales. any these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court\x92 constitutional concerns and resulted reversal its current position, could required collect sales and use taxes states other than Washington, North Dakota, and Kansas. The imposition state and local governments various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for and could decrease our future sales. Our Vendor Relationships Subject Number Risks Although continue increase the number vendors that supply products and vendor accounts for % more our inventory purchases, have significant vendors that are important our sourcing. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. our current vendors were stop selling merchandise acceptable terms, may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. May Subject Product Liability Claims People Property Are Harmed the Products Sell Some the products sell may expose product liability claims relating personal injury, death, property damage caused such products, and may require take actions such product recalls. Certain businesses and individuals also sell products using our -commerce platform that may increase our exposure product liability claims, such these sellers not have sufficient resources protect themselves from such claims. Although maintain liability insurance, cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our vendor agreements with our distributors, manufacturers, and third party sellers not indemnify from product liability. Could Liable for Breaches Security Our Website fundamental requirement for -commerce the secure transmission confidential information over public networks. Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure mitigate such fraud breaches may adversely affect our operating results. Could Liable for Fraudulent Unlawful Activities Sellers The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. addition, are aware that governmental agencies have investigated the provision online payment services and could require changes the way this business conducted. Under Merchants@, Marketplace and certain other our programs, may unable prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered when the products received are materially different from the sellers\x92 descriptions. Under our A2Z Guarantee, reimburse buyers for payments certain limits these situations and our third party sales grow, the cost this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. Any costs incur result liability because our A2Z Guarantee otherwise could harm our business. addition, the functionality our payments program depends certain third-party vendors delivering services. these vendors are unable unwilling provide services, our payments program and our businesses that use may not viable. Finally, may unable prevent sellers our Merchants@, Marketplace, Merchant com, and certain other programs from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods unlawful manner, violating the proprietary rights others, and could face civil criminal liability for unlawful activities our sellers. May Not Able Adapt Quickly Enough Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards Technology the -commerce industry changes rapidly. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing websites and proprietary technology obsolete. The Internet Medium for Commerce Subject Uncertainty Consumer use the Internet medium for commerce subject uncertainty. While the number Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough meet the increased levels demand. addition, activity that diminishes the experience for Internet users, such spyware, spoof emails, viruses and spam directed Internet users, well viruses and \x93denial service\x94 attacks directed Internet companies and service providers, may discourage people from using the Internet, including for commerce. Furthermore, newer users the Internet could less active -commerce customers compared our earlier customers. use the Internet medium for commerce grows slower rate than anticipate, our sales would lower than expected and our business could harmed. Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors March , : Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Richard . Dalzell Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer Jeffrey Holden Senior Vice President, Discovery Jason Kilar Senior Vice President, Worldwide Application Software Mark . Peek Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer Diego Piacentini Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing Kal Raman Senior Vice President, Worldwide Hardlines Retail Mark . Stabingas Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Development and Services Sales Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey . Wilke Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations . Michelle Wilson Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Jeffrey . Bezos. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President from founding until June and again from October the present. Richard . Dalzell. . Dalzell has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer since November . From October until November , . Dalzell was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer and, from August until October , was Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Prior joining Amazon com, . Dalzell was Vice President Information Systems Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Jeffrey Holden. . Holden has served Senior Vice President, Discovery, since March . served Senior Vice President, Consumer Applications, from April until March , Vice President, Consumer Applications, from April April , and Director, Automated Merchandising and Discovery from February April . . Holden joined Amazon com May Director, Supply Chain Systems. Jason Kilar. . Kilar has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Application Software, since May . From February May , served Vice President, Worldwide Application Software. From October until February , served Vice President, Marketplace, and from February until October , served Vice President, Books, Music, and Video & DVD. . Kilar joined Amazon com May, Product Manager. Mark . Peek. . Peek has served Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since July . From November July , served Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis, and from April November , served Vice President, Finance, and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior joining Amazon com, . Peek was audit partner with Deloitte & Touche. Diego Piacentini. . Piacentini has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing, since November . From joining Amazon com February until November , . Piacentini was Senior Vice President and General Manager, International. Prior joining Amazon com, . Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager, Europe, Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple Computer\x92 operations Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Kal Raman. . Raman has served Senior Vice President Worldwide Hardlines Retail since September . Previously, . Raman held variety positions drugstore com, including President and CEO from April June , Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from November April , Senior Vice President, Operations and Technology and chief Operating Officer from May November , Vice President, Technology and Operations and Chief Information Officer from March May , and Vice President, Technology and Chief Information Officer from August March . Mark . Stabingas. Mark Stabingas has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Development and Services Sales since April . . Stabingas served Vice President for Worldwide Business Development and Services Sales from June April , Vice President Business Development Finance from November June , Vice President, . Stores Finance from February November , and Vice President for Financial Planning and Analysis from October February . Previously, held variety positions PepsiCo, Inc. including Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development. Thomas . Szkutak. . Szkutak has served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November . Previously, . Szkutak held variety positions General Electric ., including Chief Financial Officer Lighting from September September , and Finance Director Plastics Europe from March September . Jeffrey . Wilke. . Wilke has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations since January . From October until January , . Wilke was Senior Vice President, Operations, and prior that had been Vice President and General Manager, Operations, since joining Amazon com September . Previously, . Wilke held variety positions AlliedSignal, including Vice President and General Manager the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit from March September and General Manager the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from August February . . Michelle Wilson. . Wilson has served Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since June . She served Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel, and Secretary from March until June , Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from July until March , and Associate General Counsel, Mergers and Acquisitions and Finance from March until July . Previously, . Wilson was partner the law firm Perkins Coie LLP. Board Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Tom . Alberg Managing Director Madrona Venture Group John Seely Brown Chief Scientist Xerox Corporation (retired) and Visiting Scholar the Annenberg Center for Communication the University Southern California . John Doerr General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers William . Gordon Executive Vice President and Chief Creative Officer Electronic Arts, Inc. Myrtle . Potter President, Commercial Operations, Genentech, Inc. Thomas . Ryder Chairman and CEO Reader\x92 Digest Association, Inc. Patricia . Stonesifer President and -Chair the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Item . Properties not own any real estate. December , , operated the following facilities throughout the world: Primary Locations Square Footage ( )( ) Operating Segments Description Use Lease Expirations ( ) Palo Alto and San Francisco, California; Seattle, Washington , North America Corporate office facilities. From through . Beijing and Shanghai, China; Slough, England; Luxembourg City, Luxembourg; Munich, Germany; Paris, France; Tokyo, Japan , International Other corporate office facilities, including development centers. From through . , Sub-total Campbellsville and Lexington, Kentucky; Chambersburg, Pennsylvania; Coffeyville, Kansas; Fernley and Reno, Nevada; Grand Forks, North Dakota; New Castle, Delaware , , North America Fulfillment and warehouse operations ( )( ). From through . Bad Hersfeld, Germany; Beijing, Guangzhou, and Shanghai, China; Gourock, Scotland; Marston Gate, England; Orleans, France , , International Fulfillment and warehouse operations ( )( ). From through . , , Sub-total ( ) Includes approximately , square feet vacant space and excludes sub-leased space. ( ) Includes automated fulfillment centers utilizing sortation and other automation equipment, and less automated fulfillment centers generally specializing larger dimension product fulfillment. ( ) Additionally, have approximately , square feet leased space utilized our customer service operations domestic and international locations, and , square feet leased space utilized for data centers. ( ) Leases expiring primarily have renewal features our option. ( ) Excludes facilities operated under -sourcing arrangements Japan and Canada. believe our properties are suitable and adequate for our present needs, and periodically evaluate whether additional facilities are necessary. Item . Legal Proceedings number purported class action complaints were filed holders our equity and debt securities against , our directors, and certain our senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Securities Exchange Act (the \x93 Act\x94). August , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed second consolidated amended complaint alleging that , together with certain our officers and directors, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through October , concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects, and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and have been vigorously defending ourselves these matters. March , signed Stipulation Settlement with counsel representing the alleged plaintiff class with respect the Act claims. approved the Court, the settlement would dispose all claims arising under the Act, but not the Act, exchange for payment $ , , , most not all which expect funded our insurers. October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys\x92 fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint, and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Beginning March , were served with complaints filed several different states, including Illinois and Nevada, private litigant purportedly behalf the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that (along with other companies with which have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales personal property customers those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating were not required collect remit such taxes. The complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys\x92 fees, civil penalties $ , per violation, and treble punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. possible that have been will named similar cases other states well. not believe that are liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure collect sales other taxes relating Internet sales and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. July , , Pinpoint, Inc. filed complaint for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Northern District Illinois against and several other companies with which have commercial agreements. The original complaint was dismissed without prejudice December , but the lawsuit was -filed March the same court. The complaint alleges that our personalization technology infringes patents obtained Pinpoint and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. January , , Soverain Software LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes several patents obtained Soverain purporting cover \x93Internet Server Access Control and Monitoring Systems\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Network Sales Systems\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. October , , Soverain filed amended complaint alleging that infringe two additional patents purporting cover \x93Digital Active Advertising\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Open Network Payment System for Providing Real-Time Authorization Payment and Purchase Transactions\x94 ( . Patent . , , ). The patents asserted the amended complaint have since been severed from those asserted the original complaint, and accordingly separate complaint has been filed for those patents. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. January , , IPXL Holdings, LLC brought action against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Virginia. The complaint alleges that aspects our online ordering technology, including -Click ® ordering, infringe patent obtained IPXL purporting cover \x93Electronic Fund Transfer Transaction System\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. August , , the Court entered judgment Amazon com\x92 favor the grounds that the patent claims asserted the plaintiff were invalid and that Amazon com\x92 technology did not infringe those claims any event. The Court also awarded Amazon com its attorneys\x92 fees and costs. Plaintiff appealing that judgment. April , learned that the French authorities are investigating our DVD sales practices France, and are cooperating. May , , Toysrus com LLC filed complaint against for breach contract the Superior Court New Jersey. The complaint alleges that breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus com LLC selling, and permitting other third parties sell, products that Toysrus com LLC alleges has exclusive right sell our website. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, declaratory judgment and either monetary damages unspecified amount rescission the commercial agreement and return specific amounts paid under the agreement totaling $ million. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and have brought counterclaims alleging breach contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. September , , BTG International Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our Associates program, infringes two patents obtained BTG purporting cover methods and apparatuses for \x93Attaching Navigational History Information Universal Resource Locator Links World Wide Web Page\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and for \x93Tracking the Navigation Path User the World Wide Web\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. October , Cendant Publishing, Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our recommendations features, infringes patent obtained Cendant purporting cover \x93System and Method for Providing Recommendation Goods Services Based Recorded Purchasing History\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. February , Cendant voluntarily withdrew the complaint without prejudice. However, expect the plaintiff -file the claims unless they are settled otherwise disposed . Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, results operations, financial position, cash flows particular period. Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted for vote our shareholders during the fourth quarter . PART Item . Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock and Related Shareholder Matters Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for our common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Holders February , , there were , shareholders record our common stock, although there are much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Recent Sales Unregistered Securities October , , Anza Properties exercised portion their warrant and received , shares our common stock per share exercise price $ . assumed this warrant obligation connection with acquisition. The shares were issued reliance exemption from registration under Section ( )( ) under the Act. Issuer Purchases Equity Securities None. Item . Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\x94 and the information contained Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations.\x94 Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. Year Ended December , ( thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net income (loss) , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Basic earnings per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principal $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principal \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 Basic earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principal $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principal \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 Diluted earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Balance Sheet and Other Data: Total assets $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Long-term debt and other , , , , , , , , , , ( ) For further discussion earnings (loss) per share, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Item . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\x92 current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, fluctuations foreign exchange rates, changes global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate growth the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon com invests new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, competition, management growth, potential fluctuations operating results, international growth and expansion, fulfillment center optimization, risks inventory management, seasonality, the degree which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, and risks fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , \x93Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results,\x94 which, along with the previous discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. Overview Our primary source revenue the sale wide range products and services customers our global websites . The products offered our websites include products have purchased from distributors, publishers, and manufacturers and products offered third parties our websites. Generally, recognize gross revenue from items sell from our inventory and recognize our net share revenue items sold third parties. Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow . Free cash flow driven primarily increasing operating income and efficiently managing working capital and capital expenditures. Increases operating income result from increases sales through our websites and focus keeping our operating costs low, offset investments make longer-term strategic initiatives including hiring additional software engineers and computer scientists. increase sales, focus improving all aspects the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, increasing selection, expanding product information, improving ease use, and earning customer trust. Our price reductions take several forms: reduce the sales prices products sell, recruit third-party sellers compete with product detail pages, and reduce eliminate the cost shipping the consumer. also seek efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility issue shares for strategic purposes, such financings and aligning employee interests with shareholders. moved restricted stock units our primary vehicle for equity compensation late because believe they better align the interests our shareholders and employees. Restricted stock units result charges our income statement based the fair value the awards the grant date recorded over the underlying service periods. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were million December , , compared with million December , and . seek leverage our fixed customer experience costs and work reduce our variable costs per unit. Our customer experience costs, specifically the costs necessary build, enhance, and add features our websites and build and optimize our fulfillment centers, are largely fixed that they not vary directly with sales. The customer experience costs that remain variable percentage sales include product costs; credit-card processing fees; bad debt; picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment; transportation; customer service support; and most aspects our marketing costs. decrease our variable costs per unit basis and enable lower prices for customers, seek increase our direct publisher and manufacturer sourcing; seek maximize volume discounts available from suppliers; and focus maintaining lean culture, including reducing defects our processes. Free cash flow defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our statements cash flows. Because are able turn our inventory quickly, have negative operating cycle that source cash flow . average, our high inventory velocity means generally collect from our customers before our payments suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was , , for , , and . expect some variability inventory turnover over time since affected several factors, including our product mix, our mix third-party sales, our continuing focus -stock inventory availability, our future investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent choose utilize outsource fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days were , , and for , and . expect some variability accounts payable days over time since affected several factors, including the mix product sales, the mix third-party sales, the mix suppliers, and changes payment terms over time, including the effect negotiating better pricing from our suppliers exchange for shorter payment terms. Our spending technology and content will increase add computer scientists and software engineers continue improve our process efficiency and enhance the customer experience our websites. believe that advances technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost processing power, the improved consumer experience the Internet outside the workplace through lower-cost broadband service the home, and the advances wireless connectivity will continue improve the consumer experience the Internet and increase its ubiquity people\x92 lives. Our challenge will continue build and deploy innovative and efficient software that will best take advantage continued advances technology. Our financial reporting currency the . Dollar and changes exchange rates significantly affect our reported results, including trends. For example, our total revenue, profit, and operating and free cash flow have recently benefited significantly from weakness the . Dollar comparison the currencies our internationally-focused websites. While believe that our increasing diversification beyond the . economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders, important also evaluate our growth rates before the effect currency changes. For example, while our revenues increased % during comparison with the prior year, holding currency exchange constant with the prior year our growth would have been %. the future, this trend may reverse, and our consolidated . Dollar revenue growth rates would less than our local-currency growth rates. may have significant variation our future reported results. believe that our reported net income for should not viewed, its own, material positive event, and the year-over-year increase net income $ million not necessarily predictive our future results for variety reasons. For example, had primarily non-cash net benefit from income taxes $ million resulting primarily from changes valuation deferred tax assets associated with our net operating loss carryforwards attributable continuing operations. Additionally, the remeasurement our % Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities (\x93PEACS\x94) and intercompany balances resulted significant gains and charges associated with the effect movements currency exchange rates. Accordingly, encourage readers our financial statements evaluate the effect our operating trends these items since future income taxes and changes currency exchange rates may create significant variability our future operating results. For additional information about each line item summarized above, refer Item Part , \x93Financial Statements\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles the United States (\x93GAAP\x94) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and The operating cycle number days sales inventory plus number days sales accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. Inventory turnover the quotient annualized cost sales average inventory over five quarters. Accounts payable days, calculated the quotient accounts payable cost sales, multiplied the number days the period. liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company\x92 critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company\x92 financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Although believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, conditions. Revenue Recognition recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are the primary party obligated transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Under our Syndicated Stores arrangements, record gross product sales and costs since own the inventory, set prices, and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service, and the other business earns sales commission. Product sales and shipping revenues, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue our best estimate expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. Amounts paid advance for subscription services, including amounts received for online DVD rentals and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized revenue over the subscription term. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and similar amounts earned through our Merchant com program are recognized when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. Outbound shipping charges customers are included \x93Net sales\x94 and, excluding amounts earned from third-party sellers where don\x92 provide fulfillment services, amounted $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. provide fulfillment-related services connection with certain our Merchants@ and Merchant com programs. those arrangements, well other product sales third parties, the third-party maintains ownership the related products. Internal-Use Software Included fixed assets the capitalized cost internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business. accordance with Statement Position (\x93SOP\x94) - , \x93Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use,\x94 capitalize costs incurred during the application development stage related the development internal-use software and amortize these costs over the estimated useful life two years. Costs incurred related design maintenance internal-use software are expensed incurred. During , , and capitalized $ million, $ million, and $ million costs associated with development internal-use software, which offset amortization previously capitalized amounts $ million, $ million, and $ million. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs, and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. Additionally, may determine, did , that certain the office space vacated part our restructuring, which have been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, may necessary for our future needs. the extent elect utilize this office space, adjust our restructuring-related liability and classify future payments the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. Currency Effect Intercompany Balances provision Statement Financial Accounting Standard (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, which settlement not planned anticipated the foreseeable future, excluded the determination net income. Our international operations are financed, part, the . parent company. Prior the fourth quarter , currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were recorded stockholders\x92 deficit translation adjustments and not included the determination net income because intended permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter , made the decision that these amounts would repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation, any exchange gain loss arising from remeasurements intercompany balances required recorded the determination net income. accordance with SFAS . , currency adjustments arising before the fourth quarter continue included component \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. Resulting from the remeasurement intercompany balances using exchange rates the reporting dates, recorded gains $ million and $ million for and . Repayments among the entities during were $ million. Valuation Deferred Tax Assets SFAS , \x93 Accounting for Income Taxes,\x94 requires that deferred tax assets evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets including our recent cumulative earnings experience taxing jurisdiction, expectations future taxable income, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. December , , our net deferred tax assets are $ million, comprised approximately $ million relating our net operating loss carryforwards (\x93NOLs\x94), with the remaining portion related temporary timing differences between tax and financial reporting. Classification deferred tax assets between current and long-term categories based the expected timing realization, and the valuation allowance allocated pro-rata basis. had net tax benefit $ million resulting primarily from the effect changes our valuation assessment deferred tax assets during . connection with this assessment, also recorded net credit \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit\x94 $ million our consolidated balance sheet . The range possible judgments relating the valuation our deferred tax assets very wide. For example, had determined that the weight available evidence did not support decision that portion our deferred tax asset will realized, the amount recorded \x93Provision (benefit) for income taxes\x94 would have been expense $ million (rather than benefit $ million) for . Alternatively, had concluded that the weight available evidence supported decision that substantially all our deferred tax assets may realized, would have recorded substantially larger credit \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit.\x94 Significant judgment required making this assessment, and very difficult predict when, ever, our assessment may conclude that the remaining portion our deferred tax assets are realizable. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow . Free cash flow was $ million for compared $ million for , increase %. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can volatile and are sensitive many factors, including changes working capital. Working capital any specific point time subject many variables, including seasonality, the timing expense payments, discounts offered vendors, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which were $ billion and $ billion the end and . Amounts held foreign currencies were $ million and $ million the end and , and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. Cash provided operating activities was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers and third-party sellers, offset cash payments make suppliers products and services, employee compensation, credit card transaction fees, bad debt, and interest payments our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from Free cash flow defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our statements cash flows. customers and third-party sellers generally corresponds our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards buy from , our receivables from customers settle quickly. Cash paid inventory and transportation suppliers generally corresponds with cost sales, adjusted for increases decreases inventory and payable levels. During , payments product merchandise suppliers, which not include payments transportation suppliers, totaled $ billion, increase $ billion over the prior year. The increase payments product merchandise suppliers corresponds with cost sales, and with our efforts add product categories, increase selection products offer for sale, improve availability both existing and new product categories, and take advantage additional discounts offered suppliers, and also affected foreign exchange rates. Cash provided (used ) investing activities corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities marketable securities and purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development costs. Cash used investing activities was $ million and $ , while cash provided investing activities was $ million with the variability caused primarily maturities marketable securities. Our capital expenditures, including internal-use software and website development, were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investment development new features and product offerings our websites over time. believe our expenditures for repairs and improvements are sufficient keep our facilities and equipment suitable operating condition. September , acquired all the outstanding shares Joyo com purchase price $ million, including cash payment (net cash acquired) $ million, the assumption employee stock options, and transaction-related costs. Cash paid connection with this acquisition classified cash provided (used ) investing activities our consolidated statements cash flows. The operating results Joyo com did not have significant effect consolidated results for . See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Business Acquisition.\x94 Cash used financing activities was $ million and $ million . This compares cash provided financing activities $ million . Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from exercises employee stock options, which were $ million , $ million , and $ million for . expect cash proceeds from exercises stock options will decline over time continue issuing restricted stock units our primary vehicle for stock-based awards. Cash outflows from financing activities result from repayments long-term debt and payments capital lease obligations, which were $ million , $ million , and $ million . During , paid $ million, which includes redemption premium $ million, redeem portion our % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % Convertible Subordinated Notes\x94). See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 recorded primarily non-cash net benefit $ million \x93Provision (benefit) for income taxes\x94 relating primarily our valuation deferred tax assets. expect our cash taxes paid approximately $ million, compared with $ million . March , , redeemed million Euros principal our % PEACS for cash payment $ million, which includes $ million interest from and including February through March , . Under the Indenture, premium was required. March , , the outstanding principal amount our % PEACS was million Euros ($ million using the Euro . Dollar exchange rate that date). Additionally, March , our Board Directors authorized new debt repurchase program, replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization its entirety, pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem, otherwise retire aggregate $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS. Since our % PEACS, which are due , are denominated Euros, our . Dollar equivalent interest payments and principal obligations fluctuate with the Euro . Dollar exchange rate. currently not hedge our exposure foreign currency effects our interest principal obligations relating the % PEACS, and, result, any fluctuations the exchange rate will have effect our interest expense and, the extent make principal payments, the amount . Dollar equivalents necessary for principal settlement. Additionally, since our interest payable our % PEACS due Euros, the balance interest payable subject gains losses currency movements until the date the interest payment. Gains losses the remeasurement our Euro-denominated interest payable are classified \x93Other expense (income), net\x94 our consolidated statements operations. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments December , : Thereafter Total ( thousands) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and other ( ) $ $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ , , Debt interest ( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases ( ) , , , , , , , Purchase obligations ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Total operating and capital commitments , , , , , , , , , , Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income ( ) , , , , , , , Other , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Total restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , $ , , ( ) The principal payment due and the annual interest payments due under our % PEACS fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, which, December , , was . December , , our principal debt obligation for the % PEACS has increased $ million since its issuance February due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. Additionally, March , , redeemed million Euros our outstanding % PEACS, which not reflected the table above. ( ) Pursuant SFAS . , \x93Accounting for Leases , \x94 lease agreements are categorized their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for , pursuant SFAS . they are not reflected the balance sheet. December , , have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real estate $ million. had applied our operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not accordance with GAAP, would have recorded approximately $ million additional obligations our balance sheet December , . ( ) Consists primarily legally-binding commitments purchase inventory. Legally-binding commitments associated with non-inventory purchases are not significant. ( ) Net estimated $ million sublease rentals. December , , had signed sublease agreements totaling $ million. Pledged Securities are required pledge portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. The amount required pledged for real estate lease agreements changes over the life our leases; with fluctuations our market capitalization, which common shares outstanding multiplied the closing price our common stock; and based our credit-rating. The change the total amount collateral required pledged under these agreements follows: Standby Letters Credit ( ) Line Credit ( ) Real Estate Leases ( ) Total ( thousands) Balance December , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) Balance December , ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Pursuant available standby letter- -credit facilities totaling $ million. ( ) Pursuant available line credit totaling $ million. ( ) The required amount collateral pledged certain our real estate leases fluctuates based our market capitalization. December , , our market capitalization was $ billion. our market capitalization decreases, the required amount collateral pledged will increase $ million ( market capitalization less than $ billion but more than $ billion) $ million ( our market capitalization less than $ billion). ( ) Includes $ million cash equivalents pledged collateral. See \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, repurchase, refinance, otherwise restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities would likely dilutive our shareholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition , investment , complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that lines- -credit financing instruments will available amounts terms acceptable , all. Results Operations have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our chief operating decision maker reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. Net Sales and Gross Profit Net sales information follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Net Sales: North America $ , , $ , , $ , , International , , , , , , Consolidated $ , , $ , , $ , , Net Sales Growth Rate: North America % % % International Consolidated Net Sales Mix: North America % % % International Consolidated % % % Revenue growth due primarily increased demand driven increased selection, lower prices, including from our free shipping offers, and improved features and services available our websites. Revenue growth also affected changes exchange rates. See \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 below for additional information the effect reported revenue changes exchange rates. Net sales from \x93Other\x94 consist non-retail activities, such our Merchant com program, miscellaneous marketing and promotional activities, and our -branded credit card program. North America revenue growth rate was consistent with %, from our growth rate %. The increase growth rates from reflects our efforts increase product categories and selection available our websites, and continue reducing prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers. International revenue growth rate declined and compared the prior year periods, which reflects several factors. These factors include the increasing size our business, which naturally causes growth rates decline over time, offset our customer experience initiatives including new category introductions; increased selection; the introduction our third-party offerings the , Germany, Japan, and France; and our efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers. International segment revenue growth rates are also affected changes exchange rates. The relative mix worldwide net sales attributed our International segment continues increase, and expect that, over time, our International segment will represent % more our consolidated total. Additionally, continue offer increased selection, lower prices, and additional product lines our Electronics and other general merchandise category, expect see the relative mix sales from this category increase. Gross profit information follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Gross Profit: North America $ , , $ , $ , International , , , Consolidated $ , , $ , , $ , Gross Profit Growth Rate: North America % % % International Consolidated Gross Margin: North America % % % International Consolidated The increases gross profit absolute terms during and compared prior year periods correspond with increased revenue, including from increased sales volume third-party sellers, offset our year-round free shipping offers and lower prices for customers. Generally, our gross margins fluctuate based several factors, including our product and geographic mix sales during the year; sales volumes third-party sellers; changes vendor pricing; lowering prices for customers, including from competitive pricing decisions; and the extent which our customers accept our free shipping offers. Free shipping offers reduce shipping revenue and reduce our gross margins retail sales. view our shipping offers effective marketing tool and intend continue offering them indefinitely. Additionally, , introduced new shipping membership program, Amazon Prime, which members receive free two-day shipping and discounted overnight shipping. North America segment gross margin was consistent with , with each these years down slightly from . Changes mix product sales towards lower gross margin product categories and price reductions for our customers, including from our year-round free shipping offers, were offset partially increased sales volume third-party sellers and volume discounts receive from our product suppliers. International segment gross margins declined during and compared prior periods resulting from our efforts continue reducing prices for customers, including from our free shipping offers, and from shift mix product sales towards lower gross margin product categories, offset partially increases sales volume third-party sellers. Sales products third-party sellers our websites continue increase, representing %, %, and % unit sales , , and . Since revenues from these sales are recorded net amount, they generally result lower revenues but higher gross margin per unit. product sales third-party sellers continue increase, anticipate the higher gross margin attributes these sales will partially offset the effect our gross margins our strategy lower prices for customers over time offering additional broader price reductions, free shipping offers, and other promotions. Gross profit growth also affected changes exchange rates. See \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 below for additional information the effect reported gross profit changes exchange rates. Supplemental Information Supplemental information about shipping results follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue $ , $ , $ , Outbound shipping costs ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net shipping cost $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) believe that offering low prices our customers fundamental our future success. One way offer lower prices through free-shipping offers that result net cost delivering products. Additionally, , continued lower prices, including introducing new shipping membership program, Amazon Prime, which members receive free two-day shipping and discounted overnight shipping. seek partially offset these costs over time through achieving higher sales volumes, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies, including reducing split-shipments. Supplemental information about our net sales follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Net Sales: North America Media $ , , $ , , $ , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , , Other , , , Total North America $ , , $ , , $ , , International Media $ , , $ , , $ , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other , , , Total International $ , , $ , , $ , , Consolidated Media $ , , $ , , $ , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , , , Other , , , Total consolidated $ , , $ , , $ , , Net Sales Growth Rate: North America Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total North America International Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other ( ) Total International Consolidated Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated % % % North America % % % International Total consolidated % % % Direct Segment Operating Expenses Information about the operating expense categories that allocate our segment results follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Segment Operating Expenses: North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , Percent Net Sales: North America % % % International Segment Operating Expenses: Fulfillment ( ) $ , $ , $ , Marketing ( ) , , , Technology and content ( ) , , , General and administrative ( ) , , , Percent Net Sales: Fulfillment ( ) % % % Marketing ( ) Technology and content ( ) General and administrative ( ) Year-over-year Percentage Change: Fulfillment ( ) % % % Marketing ( ) ( ) ( ) Technology and content ( ) ( ) ( ) General and administrative ( ) ( ) ( ) Fulfillment The increase fulfillment costs absolute dollars comparison with the prior year relates variable costs corresponding with sales volume; our mix product sales; costs associated with credit card fees; and bad debt costs, including costs our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions. The mix product sales affects fulfillment costs per shipment based variations shape and weight products sell. Additionally, since credit card fees associated with third-party seller transactions are based the gross purchase price underlying transactions, and bad debt costs are higher percentage revenue versus our retail sales, our increasing third-party sales result increasing fulfillment costs percent net sales. Also, during the third quarter began operation new European fulfillment center Scotland and plan expand our fulfillment capacity Japan . Fulfillment costs percentage net sales decreased due improvements productivity and accuracy, the increase units fulfilled, which leverages the fixed-cost portion our fulfillment network, efficiencies gained through utilization fulfillment services provided third parties, decline customer service contacts per unit resulting from improvements our operations, and enhancements our customer self-service features, offset partially increases credit card fees and bad debt, including costs our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions. expect absolute amounts spent fulfillment increase over time. ( ) Marketing direct customers our websites primarily through number targeted online marketing channels, such our Associates and Syndicated Stores programs, sponsored search, portal advertising, -mail campaigns, and other initiatives. Since our marketing expenses are largely variable, expect absolute amounts spent marketing increase over time. the extent there increased decreased competition for these traffic sources, the extent our mix these channels shifts, would expect see corresponding change our marketing expense. Marketing costs increased absolute terms corresponding with revenue growth utilized variable online marketing channels such our Associates and Syndicated Stores programs, sponsored search, and other variable marketing initiatives. While costs associated with free shipping are not included marketing expense, view free shipping effective worldwide marketing tool, and intend continue offering indefinitely. ( ) Technology and Content Our spending technology and content has increased are adding computer scientists and software engineers continue enhance the customer experience our websites and those websites powered and improve our process efficiency. Additionally, continue invest several areas technology, including seller platform; com, our wholly-owned subsidiary focused search technology www com , www amazon com , and other Amazon sites; web services; and digital initiatives. During , , and capitalized $ million, $ million, and $ million costs associated with development internal-use software, which offset amortization previously capitalized amounts $ million, $ million, and $ million. intend continue investing these and other initiatives and expect absolute dollars spent technology and content increase over time continue add computer scientists and software engineers our staff. significant majority these costs are incurred the United States and most them are allocated our North America segment. ( ) General and Administrative The increase spending general and administrative primarily due increases professional fees and litigation costs. expect absolute dollars spent general and administrative increase over time. annual basis , each category direct segment operating expenses has either declined remained flat with percentage net sales. However, for the fourth quarter expenses for \x93Marketing\x94 and \x93Technology and content\x94 percentage net sales increased comparison same period , and this trend may continue. Stock-Based Compensation October , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board reached consensus the effective date for SFAS . 123R (SFAS 123R), Share-Based Payment . SFAS 123R requires measure compensation cost for all outstanding unvested share-based awards fair value beginning July , , however will early-adopt the provisions SFAS 123R with implementation date January , . The adoption this standard will not affect the stock-based compensation associated with our restricted stock and restricted stock units which are already recorded fair value the date grant and recognized over the service period, but will result the recognition stock-based compensation future periods for remaining unvested stock options the effective date. the implementation date this standard, will longer have employee stock awards subject variable accounting treatment. estimate that stock-based compensation for will $ million. See also Item Part , \x93Financial Statements\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x96Stock-based Compensation\x94 for our SFAS . pro forma disclosures using fair value accounting treatment. Stock-based compensation consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Stock awards\x97variable accounting ( ) $ , $ , $ , Fixed accounting ( ): Restricted stock units ( ) , , , Restricted stock ( ) , , , Total stock-based compensation $ , $ , $ , ( ) Variable accounting treatment results expense contra-expense recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated based the quoted price our common stock and vesting schedules underlying awards. the extent stock options are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 ( ) The fair value awards determined grant date based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense over the service period using the accelerated method under FIN . , Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option Award Plans . the extent awards are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset stock-based compensation. ( ) Since October , have awarded restricted stock units our primary form stock-based compensation. ( ) Includes expense associated with matching contributions million and million shares our common stock under our ( ) savings plan during and . matching contributions were made . December , , had million stock awards outstanding, including million stock options with $ weighted average exercise price; million restricted stock units; and million shares restricted stock. Common shares outstanding (which include restricted stock) plus shares underlying stock options and restricted stock units totaled million and million December , and . For additional information about our stock-based compensation and awards see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Stock-based Compensation.\x94 Other Operating Expense (Income) Other operating expense (income) was $( ) million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , which includes restructuring-related expenses (credits) and amortization other intangibles. Restructuring-related expenses (credits) were $( ) million, $ million, and $ million; and amortization other intangibles was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . During , determined that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which had been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, was necessary for our future needs. have reduced our restructuring-related liability resulting gain $ million . Lease-related payments for this office space, approximately $ million per quarter, are expensed over the lease period and classified the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. , streamlined our organizational structure France reduce our operating costs. These efforts were primarily focused eliminating French office positions managerial, professional, clerical, and technical roles. The number employees affected totaled and resulted severance costs $ million classified \x93Other operating expense (income)\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Cash payments resulting from our operational restructurings were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Based currently available information, estimate the remaining restructuring-related cash outflows will follows: Leases Other Total ( thousands) Year Ended December , $ , $ , $ , , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Thereafter , \x97 , Total estimated cash outflows ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Cash flows are presented net estimated $ million sublease rentals. December , , had signed contractual sublease agreements totaling $ million. For additional information about our operational restructuring, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Other Operating Expense (Income).\x94 Income from Operations Our income from operations was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and . These increases primarily result from net sales and gross profit growth and declines operating expenses percent net sales leverage the fixed cost portion our cost structure and seek improve our variable costs through process efficiencies. Additionally, and operating income improved from year-over-year reductions $ million and $ million stock-based compensation expense associated with variable accounting, offset increases stock-based compensation $ million and $ million associated with restricted stock units. Net Interest Expense The primary component our net interest expense the interest incur our long-term debt instruments, including $ million principal balance our % . Convertible Subordinated Notes and million Euros ($ million based the exchange rate December , ) % PEACS December , . Interest expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , with declines primarily relating principal repayments $ million and $ million and . December , , our total long-term indebtedness was $ billion compared $ billion year ago. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 generally invest our excess cash \x93 \x94 rated higher short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance invested funds and the prevailing rates are earning them. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Gains sales marketable securities, net $ $ , $ , Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( ) ( ) Total other income (expense), net $ ( , ) $ , $ , Foreign-currency transaction losses primarily relate the interest payable our % PEACS. Since these payments are settled Euros, the balance interest payable (which paid annually February) subject gains losses resulting from changes exchange rates between the . Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and payment. Remeasurements and Other Remeasurements and other consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Foreign-currency losses remeasurement % PEACS ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Gains sales Euro-denominated investments, net , , , Gains sales equity investments, net , , Loss redemption long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) \x97 Loss termination Euro Currency Swap ( ) \x97 ( , ) \x97 Foreign-currency effect intercompany balances ( ) , , \x97 Other-than-temporary impairments and other ( ) , ( , ) ( , ) Total remeasurements and other $ ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Each period the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars results gains losses recorded \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. ( ) Represents the remaining basis date termination our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion our % PEACS principal and interest. ( ) Represents the gains associated with the remeasurement intercompany balances due changes foreign exchange rates. See \x93Item Part \x97Financial Statements\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) Included gain $ million relating the settlement contractual dispute, and included and $ million and $ million losses from equity-method investees. equity-method losses income were recorded . Income Taxes record tax provision benefit for current and deferred . federal, state, and foreign income taxes for all periods presented, classified \x93Provision (benefit) for income taxes\x94 the consolidated statements operations. periodically evaluate the likelihood the realization deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount these deferred tax assets valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience taxing jurisdiction, expectations future taxable income, the carryforward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Significant judgment required making this assessment, and very difficult predict when, ever, our assessment may conclude that the remaining portion our deferred tax assets are realizable. had net current tax benefit $ million, representing $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share, resulting primarily from the effect changes our valuation assessment deferred tax assets during . connection with this assessment also recorded net credit \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit\x94 $ million our consolidated balance sheet . December , , our net deferred tax assets are $ million, comprised approximately $ million relating our NOLs, with the remaining portion related temporary timing differences between tax and financial reporting. Classification deferred tax assets between current and long-term categories based the expected timing realization, and the valuation allowance allocated ratably. December , , our gross deferred tax assets related our NOLs were approximately $ million (relating approximately $ billion NOLs), offset valuation allowance approximately $ million due uncertainty about their future realization. the future, determine that the remaining $ million NOL deferred tax assets more likely than not realizable, substantially all would credited \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit\x94 rather than the income statement since they primarily relate tax-deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. The majority our NOLs expire after . also have approximately $ million deferred tax assets relating approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards that expire and thereafter. Due uncertainty regarding future realization, have provided full valuation allowance for this portion our deferred tax asset. Additionally, expect net income for decline because expect tax provision rather than the large tax benefit received . expect our cash taxes paid approximately $ million, compared with $ million and $ million . Net Income Net income was $ million and $ million and , and net loss was $ million . believe that our reported net income for should not viewed, its own, material positive event, and the year-over-year increases net income $ million and $ million and are not necessarily predictive our future results for variety reasons. For example, had net benefit from income taxes $ million, representing $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share, resulting primarily from changes valuation deferred tax assets associated with our net operating loss carryforwards attributable continuing operations. Additionally, the remeasurement our % PEACS and intercompany balances resulted significant gains and charges associated with the effect movements currency exchange rates. Accordingly, encourage readers our financial statements evaluate the effect our operating trends these items since future income taxes and change currency exchange rates may create significant variability our future operating results. Effect Exchange Rates The effect our consolidated statements operations from changes exchange rates versus the . Dollar follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands, except per share amounts) Exchange-rate effect ( ): Net sales $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , Operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Net interest expense and other , , , Remeasurements and other ( ) , , , Net income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Represents the effect reported results due year-over-year changes exchange rates. Absent year-over-year changes exchange rates, reported amounts would have been lower (higher) these amounts. ( ) Includes foreign-currency gains (losses) remeasurement % PEACS and intercompany balances, and realized currency-related gains associated with sales Euro-denominated investments held . functional-currency subsidiary. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Remeasurements and Other.\x94 Non-GAAP Financial Measure: Free Cash Flow Regulation , Conditions for Use Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other provisions the Act define and prescribe the conditions for use certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measure \x93Free cash flow\x94 meets the definition non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow used addition and conjunction with results presented accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not relied upon the exclusion GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects additional way viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides more complete understanding factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages investors review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports their entirety and not rely any single financial measure. Free cash flow, which reconcile \x93Cash provided (used ) operating activities,\x94 cash flow from operations reduced \x93Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.\x94 use free cash flow, and ratios based , conduct and evaluate our business because, although similar cash flow from operations, believe more conservative measure cash flows since purchases fixed assets are necessary component ongoing operations. limited circumstances which proceeds from sales fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since not anticipate being net seller fixed assets, expect free cash flow less than operating cash flows. Free cash flow has limitations due the fact that does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made capital lease obligations cash payments for business acquisitions such our acquisition Joyo com (see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94). Therefore, believe important view free cash flow complement our entire consolidated statements cash flows. The following reconciliation free cash flow the most comparable GAAP measure, \x93Cash provided operating activities\x94 for , , and ( thousands): Year Ended December , Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ , $ , Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Free cash flow $ , $ , $ , Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , Guidance The Company provided guidance February , its earnings release furnished Form - follows: First Quarter Guidance \x95 Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and %, compared with first quarter . \x95 Operating income expected between $ million and $ million, decline between ( %) and %, compared with first quarter , assuming, among other things, that the Company adopts SFAS . 123R January , , stock-based compensation $ million, and there are further revisions restructuring-related estimates. Full Year Expectations \x95 Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and %. \x95 Operating income expected between $ million and $ million, between ( %) and % growth, compared with , assuming, among other things, that the Company adopts SFAS . 123R January , , stock-based compensation $ million, and there are further revisions restructuring-related estimates. These projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and \x93Liquidity and Capital Resources,\x94 above. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash \x93 \x94 rated higher, short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined fair value due changes interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , ( thousands, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds , , , , , \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , , , \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Treasury notes and bonds , , , , , \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , ( thousands, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Treasury notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , December , , had long-term debt $ billion primarily associated with our % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS, which are due and . The fair value our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. Based upon quoted market prices prevailing exchange rates, the fair value the % PEACS was million Euros ($ million) and million Euros ($ million) December , and December , , and the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes was $ million (outstanding principal $ million) and $ billion (outstanding principal $ billion) December , and . Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from our International segment (consisting www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com ) accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these websites, well those relating www amazon (which included our North America segment), are denominated the functional currencies the corresponding websites and include Euros, British Pounds, Yen, Canadian Dollars, and Chinese Yuan. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these websites the same the corresponding local currency. The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. For example, result fluctuations foreign exchange rates during , International segment revenues improved $ million and our operating results improved $ million comparison with the prior year. have foreign exchange risk related foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (\x93foreign funds\x94). Based the balance foreign funds December , $ million, assumed %, %, and % negative currency movement would result fair value declines $ million, $ million, and $ million. All investments are classified \x93available for sale,\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities . have foreign exchange risk related our % PEACS, which have outstanding principal balance December , million Euros ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ). Due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, which cannot predict, our principal debt obligation under the % PEACS since issuance February has increased $ million December , . Based the outstanding % PEACS\x92 principal balance, assumed %, %, and % weakening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result additional losses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, recorded \x93Remeasurements and other.\x94 Additionally, have not hedged our interest payments under our % PEACS protect against exchange rate fluctuations. Assuming the . Dollar weakens against the Euro %, %, and % , would incur $ million, $ million, and $ million additional annual interest expense due solely fluctuations foreign exchange. See \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 for additional information the effect reported results changes exchange rates. See also Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Subsequent Events (Unaudited).\x94 Investment Risk December , , our recorded basis equity securities (including both publicly-traded and private companies) was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities,\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other assets.\x94 regularly review the carrying value our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that declines the fair value such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. The fair values our investments are subject significant fluctuations due volatility the stock market general, company-specific circumstances, and changes general economic conditions. Based the fair value the publicly-traded equity securities held December , $ million (recorded basis $ million), assumed %, %, and % adverse change market prices these securities would result corresponding decline total fair value approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million. Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 deficit, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item ( )( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness Amazon com, Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington February , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( thousands) Year Ended December , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) , , ( , ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) net cash provided operating activities: Depreciation fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization , , , Stock-based compensation , , , Other operating expense (income) ( , ) , , Gains sales marketable securities, net ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Remeasurements and other , , Non-cash interest expense and other , , , Deferred income taxes ( , ) ( ) Cumulative effect change account principle \x97 \x97 ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable, net and other current assets ( , ) , ( , ) Accounts payable , , , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities ( , ) ( , ) , Additions unearned revenue , , , Amortization previously unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest payable , , Net cash provided operating activities , , , INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Sales and maturities marketable securities and other investments , , , , Purchases marketable securities ( , , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from sale subsidiary \x97 , \x97 Acquisition, net cash acquired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Net cash (used ) provided investing activities ( , ) , ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from exercises stock options , , , Repayments long-term debt, capital lease obligations ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash (used ) provided financing activities ( , ) ( , ) , Foreign-currency effect cash and cash equivalents , , , Net increase cash and cash equivalents , , , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , , $ , , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Fixed assets acquired under capital leases and other financing arrangements $ $ , $ , Cash paid for interest , , , Cash paid for income taxes , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( thousands, except per share data) Year Ended December , Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , , Gross profit , , , , , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , , , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , , Stock-based compensation ( ) , , , Other operating (income) expense ( , ) , , Total operating expenses , , , , Income from operations , , , Interest income , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other (expense) income, net ( , ) , , Remeasurements and other ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Total non-operating expense, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Income (loss) before income taxes , , ( , ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes ( , ) , ( ) Income (loss) before change accounting principle , , ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) $ , $ , $ ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 $ $ $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 $ $ $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , Diluted , , , ( ) Components stock-based compensation: Fulfillment $ , $ , $ , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , , $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( thousands, except per share data) December , Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , , Marketable securities , , Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities , , , , Inventories , , Current deferred tax assets , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets , , Total current assets , , , , Fixed assets, net , , Long-term deferred tax assets , , Goodwill , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , , $ , , \x92 Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , Unearned revenue , , Interest payable , , Current portion long-term debt and other , , Total current liabilities , , , , Long-term debt and other , , , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 deficit: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 , Issued and outstanding shares\x97none \x97 \x97 Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 , , Issued and outstanding shares\x97 , and , shares , , Additional paid- capital , , , , Deferred stock-based compensation ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income , , Accumulated deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total stockholders\x92 deficit ( , ) ( , , ) Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 deficit $ , , $ , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\x92 DEFICIT ( thousands) Common Stock Additional Paid- Capital Deferred Stock-Based Compensation Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Accumulated Deficit Total Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) Shares Amount Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) $ ( , , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Increase net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net increase unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments ( ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 \x97 ( , ) Income tax benefit excess stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) , ( , , ) ( , , ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Increase net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net increase unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net and vesting restricted stock , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Notes converted \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Income tax benefit excess stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Issuance common stock \x96 employee benefit plan \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) , ( , , ) ( , , ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Decline unrealized gains available-for-sale securities, net tax effect \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Amortization unrealized loss terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net and vesting restricted stock , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Income tax benefit excess stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Issuance common stock \x96 employee benefit plan , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , , ) $ ( , ) See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97DESCRIPTION BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July . seek Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want buy online, and endeavor offer customers the lowest possible prices. and third-party sellers offer millions new, used, refurbished, and collectible items, dozens product categories. Amazon com and its affiliates operate seven retail websites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com . have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. The North America segment includes the operating results www amazon com and www amazon . The International segment includes the operating results www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com . addition, operate www com and www alexa com that enable search and navigation, and www imdb com , comprehensive movie database. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities (relating www joyo com ) which have variable interest. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated . Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , inventory valuation, depreciable lives, sales returns, receivables valuation, restructuring-related liabilities, incentive discount offers, valuation investments, acquired intangibles, taxes, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Business Acquisition September , acquired all the outstanding shares Joyo com Limited (\x93Joyo com\x94), British Virgin Islands company that operates Internet retail website the People\x92 Republic China (\x93PRC\x94) cooperation with PRC subsidiary and PRC affiliates, purchase price $ million, including cash payment $ million (net cash acquired), the assumption employee stock options, and transaction-related costs. Acquired intangibles were $ million with estimated useful lives between one and four years. The excess purchase price over the fair value the net assets acquired was $ million and classified \x93Goodwill\x94 the consolidated balance sheets. The results operations Joyo com have been included our consolidated results from the acquisition date forward. The effect consolidated net sales and operating income was not significant for . Joyo com does not own any capital stock the PRC affiliates, but the primary beneficiary future losses profits through contractual rights. result, consolidate the results the PRC affiliates accordance with FIN 46R, \x93Consolidation Variable Interest Entities.\x94 The net assets and operating results for the PRC affiliates were not significant. The intrinsic value the unvested employee stock options that were assumed connection with the Joyo com acquisition recorded \x93Deferred stock-based compensation\x94 the consolidated balance sheets and AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) will expensed over the remaining service period. Amortization these amounts classified \x93Stock-based compensation\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Cash and Cash Equivalents classify all highly liquid instruments with remaining maturity three months less the time purchase cash equivalents. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts estimate losses receivables based known troubled accounts, any, and historical experience losses incurred. Accounting Change Effective January , , prospectively changed our inventory costing method from the specific identification method the first- -first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method accounting. This change resulted cumulative increase inventory $ million, with corresponding amount recorded \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 the consolidated statements operations. received letter preferability for this change inventory costing from our independent auditors. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. provide fulfillment-related services connection with certain our Merchants@ and Merchant com programs. those arrangements, well all other product sales third parties, the third party maintains ownership the related products. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Current Assets Included \x93Accounts receivable, net and other current assets\x94 are prepaid expenses $ million and $ million December , and , representing advance payments for insurance, licenses, and other miscellaneous expenses. Asset Retirement Obligations accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, establish assets and liabilities for the present value estimated future costs return certain our leased facilities their original condition. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted the future value the estimated restoration costs. Such amounts are not significant. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets, including assets purchased under capital leases, are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two ten years). Depreciation expense classified within the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. Included fixed assets the capitalized cost internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business. accordance with SOP - , \x93Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use,\x94 capitalize costs incurred during the application development stage related the development internal-use software and amortize these costs over the estimated useful life two years. Costs incurred related design maintenance internal-use software are expensed incurred. Leases account for our lease agreements pursuant SFAS , \x93 Accounting for Leases ,\x94 which categorizes leases their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. certain our lease agreements, may receive rent holidays and other incentives. recognize lease costs straight-line basis without regard deferred payment terms, such rent holidays that defer the commencement date required payments. Additionally, incentives receive are treated reduction our costs over the term the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized cost and amortized over the lesser their expected useful life and the life the lease, without assuming renewal features, any, are exercised. Goodwill evaluate goodwill, minimum, annual basis and whenever events and changes circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not recoverable. Impairment goodwill tested the reporting unit level comparing the reporting unit\x92 carrying amount, including goodwill, the fair value the reporting unit. The fair values the reporting units are estimated using discounted projected cash flows. the carrying amount the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill considered impaired and second step performed measure the amount impairment loss, any. conduct our annual impairment test October each year, and have determined there impairment . There were events circumstances from the date our assessment through December , that would impact this assessment. Additionally, during , acquired $ million goodwill related our acquisition Joyo com. Other Assets Included \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related deferred issuance charges our long-term debt, which are amortized over the life the debt; certain equity investments; and intangible assets, net amortization. December , , and , deferred issuance charges were $ million, and $ million; equity investments were $ million and $ million; and intangibles, net amortization, were $ million, and $ million. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Other intangibles, included within \x93Other assets,\x94 consist the following: December , Other Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Other Intangibles, Net ( ) Other Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Other Intangibles, Net ( thousands) Marketing-related $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ Contract-based , ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 Technology-based ( ) , ( , ) Customer-related \x97 \x97 \x97 , ( , ) Other intangibles $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization fully-amortized intangibles. ( ) The net carrying amount intangible assets December , scheduled fully amortized over the next four years follows: $ million ; $ million ; $ million ; and $ million . The weighted-average amortization period years based useful life assumptions between one and four years. The increase net other intangibles primarily relates the acquisition Joyo com. Investments The initial carrying cost our investments the price paid. Investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. classify our investments equity-method investees the consolidated balance sheets \x93Other assets\x94 and our share the investees\x92 earnings losses \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Losses from equity-method investees were not significant for , , and . not hold over % interest any our investees December , . All other equity investments, which consist investments for which not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method accounting, investments private companies are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, distributions earnings, and additional investments. For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, classify our equity investments available-for-sale and, accordingly, record these investments their fair values with unrealized gains and losses, net tax, included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component Stockholders\x92 Deficit. generally invest our excess cash \x93 \x94 rated higher short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Such investments are included \x93Cash and cash equivalents,\x94 \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 The weighted average method used determine the cost Euro-denominated securities sold and the specific identification method used determine the cost all other securities. periodically evaluate whether declines fair values our investments are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists review qualitative and quantitative factors, including quoted market prices, available; recent financial results and operating trends; other publicly available information; implied values from AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) any recent financing rounds; other conditions that bear the value our investments. December , , gross unrealized losses our marketable securities were $ million and were determined temporary based our assessment the qualitative and quantitative factors discussed above. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets not recoverable. For long-lived assets used operations, impairment losses are only recorded the asset\x92 carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted cash flows. measure the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including: management has committed plan sell the asset, the asset available for sale its immediate condition, and the sale probable within one year the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Assets held for sale were not significant December , . Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments are received advance performing our service obligations and amortized ratably over the service period. example unearned revenue cash received from third parties under certain Merchants@ agreements for which provide the services over time. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. See Note \x97\x93Income Taxes.\x94 SFAS , \x93 Accounting for Income Taxes,\x94 requires deferred tax assets evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets including our recent cumulative earnings experience taxing jurisdiction, expectations future taxable income, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Significant judgment required making this assessment, and very difficult predict when, ever, our assessment may conclude that the remaining portion our deferred tax assets are realizable. Classification deferred tax assets between current and long-term categories based the expected timing realization, and the valuation allowance allocated pro-rata basis. Revenue recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are primarily obligated transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Under our syndicated stores arrangements, record gross product sales and costs since own the inventory, set prices, and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service, and the other business earns sales commission. Product sales and shipping revenues, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail sales customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier, which commonly referred \x93 . Shipping Point.\x94 Return allowances, which reduce product revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Amounts paid advance for subscription services, including amounts received for online DVD rentals and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized revenue straight-line basis over the subscription term. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and similar amounts earned through our Merchant com program are recognized when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. Outbound shipping charges customers are included \x93Net sales\x94 and, excluding amounts earned from third-party sellers where don\x92 provide fulfillment services, amounted $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products sold , inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies, and costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers behalf other businesses, such Toysrus com, Inc. and Target Corporation. Credit card fees and bad debt costs, including those associated with our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions, are classified \x93Fulfillment\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Outbound shipping-related costs totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended December , , , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Vendor Agreements have agreements receive cash consideration from certain our vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. generally presume amounts received from our vendors are reduction the prices pay for their products and, therefore, reflect such amounts either reduction \x93Cost sales\x94 our consolidated statements operations, , the product inventory still hand the reporting date, reflected reduction \x93Inventories\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. evaluate the likelihood reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When rebates can reasonably estimated, record portion the rebate make progress towards the purchase threshold. When receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred advertising the vendor\x92 product service, the amount receive recorded offset \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third-parties that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain our fulfillment-related costs that are incurred behalf other businesses, such Toysrus com, Inc. and Target Corporation, are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily online advertising, including through our Associates and Syndicated Stores programs, sponsored search, portal advertising, -mail campaigns, and other initiatives. pay commissions participants our Associates program when their customer referrals result product sales and classify such costs \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors, and other third parties. the extent -operative marketing reimbursements decline future periods, may incur additional expenses continue certain promotions elect reduce discontinue them. Marketing expenses also consist public relations expenditures; payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, business development, and selling activities; and lesser extent, traditional advertising such newspaper inserts. Advertising and other promotional costs, which consist primarily online advertising, are expensed incurred, and were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant December , and . Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for employees involved development our websites, including application development, editorial content, merchandising selection, AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) systems and telecommunications support, costs associated with the systems and telecommunications infrastructure, and costs acquired content. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business, which are capitalized and depreciated over two years. During , , and capitalized $ million, $ million, and $ million costs associated with development internal-use software, which offset amortization previously capitalized amounts $ million, $ million, and $ million. Fixed assets associated with capitalized internal-use software, content, and website development, net accumulated depreciation, were $ million and $ million December , and . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for employees involved general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human relations, among others; costs associated with use these functions facilities and equipment, such depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based Compensation October , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board reached consensus the effective date for SFAS . 123R, Share-Based Payment . SFAS 123R requires measure compensation cost for all outstanding unvested share-based awards fair value beginning July , , however will early-adopt the provisions SFAS 123R with implementation date January , . The adoption this standard will not affect the stock-based compensation associated with our restricted stock units which are already recorded fair value the date grant and recognized over the service period, and will result the recognition stock-based compensation future periods for remaining unvested stock options the effective date. the implementation date this standard, will longer have employee stock awards subject variable accounting treatment. estimate that stock-based compensation will approximately $ million for . generally have three categories stock-based awards: restricted stock units, restricted stock, and stock options. Through December , , accounted for stock-based awards under the intrinsic value method, which follows the recognition and measurement principles APB Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method accounting results compensation expense the extent option exercise prices are set below market prices the date grant. Also, the extent stock awards were granted subsequent December , , were subject exchange offer, other modifications, performance criteria, such awards were subject variable accounting treatment. have ( ) savings plan covering substantially all our . employees, and eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. Beginning April , began matching portion employee contributions using our common stock. Stock-based compensation includes matching contributions under our ( ) program . record the employer portion payroll tax expense, cash tax, resulting from exercises stock options and vesting restricted stock \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 and \x93General and administrative\x94 our consolidated statements operations and not include such expenses \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Stock-based compensation consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Stock awards\x97variable accounting ( ) $ , $ , $ , Fixed accounting ( ): Restricted stock units ( ) , , , Restricted stock ( ) , , , Total stock-based compensation $ , $ , $ , ( ) Variable accounting treatment results expense contra-expense recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated based the quoted price our common stock and vesting schedules underlying awards. the extent stock options are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 ( ) The fair value awards determined grant date based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense over the service period using the accelerated method under FIN . , Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option Award Plans . the extent awards are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset stock-based compensation. ( ) Since October , have awarded restricted stock units our primary form stock-based compensation. ( ) Includes expense associated with matching contributions million and million shares our common stock under our ( ) savings plan during and . matching contributions were made . Outstanding stock awards were follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Stock options ( )( ) , , , Restricted stock units ( ) , , , Outstanding stock awards, excluded from common stock outstanding , , , Restricted stock ( ) , Total outstanding stock awards , , , ( ) The weighted average per share exercise price was $ , $ , and $ , , and . ( ) Includes million, million, and million options , , and subject variable accounting treatment. ( ) Includes million restricted stock units subject variable accounting treatment , , and . ( ) Included issued and outstanding common stock. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The following table summarizes relevant information the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure, had been applied all stock-based awards ( thousands, except per share data): Year Ended December , Net income (loss)\x97 reported $ , $ , $ ( , ) Add: Stock-based compensation, reported , , , Deduct: Total stock-based compensation determined under fair value based method for all awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net income (loss)\x97SFAS . adjusted $ , $ , $ ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share\x97 reported $ $ $ ( ) Basic earnings (loss) per share\x97SFAS . adjusted ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share\x97 reported ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share\x97SFAS . adjusted ( ) The fair value for each stock option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model, assuming dividends and the following assumptions: Year Ended December , Average risk-free interest rate % % % Average expected life ( years) Volatility % % % Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs, and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. Additionally, may determine that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which have been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, may necessary for our future needs. the extent elect utilize this office space will adjust our restructuring-related liability and classify future payments the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97Other Operating Expense (Income).\x94 Foreign Currency have the following internationally-focused websites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com. Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, well most the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated the functional currencies the resident countries. Additionally, the functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, and China. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 deficit and the \x93Effect exchange-rate changes cash and cash equivalents,\x94 the consolidated statements cash flows. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved are included \x93Other income (expense), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97Other Income (Expense), Net.\x94 provision SFAS . , Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, where settlement not planned anticipated the foreseeable future, excluded the determination net income. Our international operations are financed, part, the . parent company. periods ending prior the fourth quarter , currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were recorded stockholders\x92 deficit translation adjustments and not included the determination net income because intended permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter , made the decision that these amounts would repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation, any exchange gain loss arising from remeasurements intercompany balances required recorded the determination net income. accordance with SFAS . , currency adjustments arising before the fourth quarter continue included component \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. connection with the remeasurement intercompany balances, recorded gains $ million and $ million and . During , $ million was repaid among the entities. Derivative Financial Instruments During the second quarter , terminated our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS principal and interest. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 hold warrants purchase equity securities other companies that are derivative financial instruments, classified \x93Other assets\x94 the consolidated balance sheets. not designate our warrants hedging instruments; accordingly, gains losses resulting from changes fair value are recognized the consolidated statements operations, \x93Remeasurements and other,\x94 the period change. determine the fair value our warrants through option-pricing models using current market price and volatility assumptions, including public-company market comparables for our private-company warrants. Earnings (Loss) per Share accordance with SFAS . , Earnings per Share , the weighted-average number shares used calculate basic earnings (loss) per share excludes shares restricted stock since they are subject repurchase forfeiture. For periods when have net income, the dilutive effect outstanding stock awards, including restricted stock, included the calculation diluted earnings per share using the treasury stock method for assumed proceeds, any. For periods when have net loss, the effect outstanding stock awards, including restricted stock, antidilutive and therefore excluded from the calculation diluted loss per share. Stock issuable upon conversion our convertible debt instruments excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share its effect antidilutive. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The following table shows the calculation diluted shares ( thousands): Year Ended December , Weighted average shares outstanding , , , Weighted average shares restricted stock ( ) ( ) ( , ) Shares used computation basic earnings (loss) per share , , , Total dilutive effect outstanding stock awards ( ) , , \x97 Shares used computation diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , ( ) The effect outstanding stock awards, including restricted stock, antidilutive for periods that have net loss and, accordingly, excluded from the calculation diluted loss per share those periods. The dilutive effect stock awards and restricted stock included the calculation weighted average shares, using the treasury stock method, for periods that have net income. Recent Accounting Pronouncements will implementing the provisions SFAS 123R, \x93Share-Based Payment,\x94 January , . See \x93Stock-based compensation\x94 this Note for additional discussion, including the anticipated effect our financial results adopting this standard. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Note \x97CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize, major security type, our cash and marketable securities ( thousands): December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses ( ) Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Cash equivalents pledged collateral (See Note ) , \x97 \x97 , Commercial paper and other cash equivalents , , \x97 , Total cash and cash equivalents , , , \x97 , , Asset-backed and agency securities , , ( ) , . Treasury notes and bonds , ( , ) , Corporate notes and bonds , \x97 ( ) , Equity securities and other , \x97 , Marketable securities , , ( , ) , Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) $ , , $ , $ ( , ) $ , , ( ) The fair value investments with loss positions was $ million. evaluated the nature these investments, which are primarily . Treasury Notes, the duration the impairments (substantially all less than twelve months), and concluded that such amounts were not \x93other-than-temporary\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ million, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses ( ) Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and other cash equivalents , , \x97 , Total cash and cash equivalents , , , \x97 , , . Treasury notes and bonds , ( ) , Asset-backed and agency securities , ( ) , Certificates deposit , , \x97 , Corporate notes and bonds , \x97 , Equity securities and other , , \x97 , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) $ , , $ , $ ( ) $ , , ( ) The fair value investments with loss positions was $ million. evaluated the nature these investments, which are primarily . Treasury Notes, the duration the impairments (all less than twelve months), and the amount the impairments relative the underlying portfolio and concluded that such amounts were not \x93other-than-temporary\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities . ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ million, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. The following table summarizes contractual maturities our cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( thousands): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through three years , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities , , $ , , $ , , Gross gains $ million, $ million, and $ million and gross losses $ million, $ million and $ million were realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities for , , and . are required pledge portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. See \x93Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consist the following ( thousands): December , Gross Fixed Assets ( ): Fulfillment and customer service ( ) $ , $ , Technology infrastructure , , Internal-use software, content, and website development , , Other corporate assets , , Gross fixed assets , , Accumulated Depreciation ( ): Fulfillment and customer service , , Technology infrastructure , , Internal-use software, content, and website development , , Other corporate assets , , Total accumulated depreciation , , Total fixed assets, net $ , $ , ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation fully-depreciated assets which were $ million and $ million December , and . ( ) Includes our online rental DVD catalog. Depreciation expense fixed assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million, which includes amortization fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations $ million, $ million and $ million for , , and . Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $ million and $ million December , and . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $ million and $ million December , and . Note \x97LONG-TERM DEBT AND OTHER Our long-term debt and other long-term liabilities are summarized follows ( thousands): December , ( thousands) % Convertible Subordinated Notes due February $ , $ , , % PEACS due February , , Long-term restructuring liabilities (see Note ) , , Capital lease obligations , , Other long-term debt , , , , , , Less current portion capital lease obligations ( , ) ( , ) Less current portion other long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) Total long-term debt and other $ , , $ , , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) % PEACS February , completed offering million Euros % PEACS due . The % PEACS are convertible, the holder\x92 option, into our common stock conversion price Euros per share. The . Dollar equivalent principal, interest, and conversion price fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. Interest the % PEACS payable annually arrears February each year. The % PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future senior indebtedness. The % PEACS rank equally with our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. have the right redeem the % PEACS, whole part, paying the principal, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. premium payment required for early redemption. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % PEACS, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % PEACS price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % PEACS contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants through December , . During the second quarter , terminated our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS\x92 principal and interest. Although neither party made cash payments terminate the agreement, recorded non-cash loss $ million \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 representing the remaining basis our swap asset. December , , the remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with our Euro Currency Swap, recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income,\x94 was $ million, net tax effects. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , this accumulated loss will amortized \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 over the life the % PEACS. net gains losses resulting from hedge ineffectiveness were recognized our results operations during the year ended December , . redeem otherwise restructure our % PEACS prior maturity , any remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with the Euro Currency Swap will recorded charge \x93Remeasurements and other.\x94 Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million December , and . % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due February . The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into our common stock the holders\x92 option conversion price $ per share. Interest the % Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future senior indebtedness defined the indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes rank equally with our outstanding % PEACS. have the right redeem the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, whole part, paying the principal plus redemption premium, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. December , , the redemption premium was % the principal, and decreased % February , and will decrease additional basis points annually until maturity. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants through December , . and , redeemed aggregate principal amounts $ million and $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. provided the underlying indenture, the redemption prices $ million and $ million represented $ million ( %) and $ million ( %) premiums over the face amount the redeemed notes. recorded charges and , classified \x93Remeasurements and other,\x94 $ million and $ million related these redemptions, consisting premiums $ million and $ million and unamortized deferred issuance costs $ million and $ million. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value our % Convertible Subordinated Notes December , and was $ million (principal balance $ million) and $ billion (principal balance $ billion). Note \x97COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments lease office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for inventory purchases that support normal operations, December , : Thereafter Total ( thousands) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and other ( ) $ $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ , , Debt interest ( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases ( ) , , , , , , , Total operating and capital commitments , , , , , , , , , , Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income , , , , , , , Other , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Total restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , $ , , ( ) The principal payment due and the annual interest payments due under our % PEACS fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, which December , was . December , , our principal debt obligation for the % PEACS has increased $ million since its issuance February due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events (Unaudited).\x94 ( ) Pursuant SFAS . , \x93 Accounting for Leases , \x94 lease agreements are categorized their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for , pursuant SFAS . they are not reflected the balance sheet. December , , have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real estate $ million. had applied our operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not accordance with GAAP, would have recorded approximately $ million additional assets and obligations our balance sheet December , . See \x93Note \x97Other Operating Expense (Income)\x94 for additional information about our restructuring-related lease obligations. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Pledged Securities are required pledge portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. The amount required pledged for real estate lease agreements changes over the life our leases; with fluctuations our market capitalization, which common shares outstanding multiplied the closing price our common stock; and based our credit-rating. The change the total amount collateral required pledged under these agreements follows: Standby Letters Credit ( ) Line Credit ( ) Real Estate Leases ( ) Total ( thousands) Balance December , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) Balance December , ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Pursuant available standby letter- -credit facilities totaling $ million. ( ) Pursuant available line credit totaling $ million. ( ) The required amount collateral pledged certain our real estate leases fluctuates based our market capitalization. December , , our market capitalization was $ billion. our market capitalization decreases, the required amount collateral pledged will increase $ million ( market capitalization less than $ billion but more than $ billion) $ million ( our market capitalization less than $ billion). ( ) Includes $ million cash equivalents pledged collateral. See \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 Legal Proceedings number purported class action complaints were filed holders our equity and debt securities against , our directors, and certain our senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Act and the Act (the \x93Securities Class Actions\x94). August , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed second consolidated amended complaint alleging that , together with certain our officers and directors, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through October , concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects, and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and have been vigorously defending ourselves these matters. See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events (Unaudited).\x94 October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys\x92 fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint, and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Beginning March , were served with complaints filed several different states, including Illinois and Nevada, private litigant purportedly behalf the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that (along with other companies with which have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales personal property customers those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating were not required collect remit such taxes. The complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys\x92 fees, civil penalties $ , per violation, and treble punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. possible that have been will named similar cases other states well. not believe that are liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure collect sales other taxes relating Internet sales and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. July , , Pinpoint, Inc. filed complaint for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Northern District Illinois against and several other companies with which have commercial agreements. The complaint was dismissed without prejudice December . The complaint alleges that our personalization technology infringes patents obtained Pinpoint and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events (Unaudited).\x94 January , , Soverain Software LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes several patents obtained Soverain purporting cover \x93Internet Server Access Control and Monitoring Systems\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Network Sales Systems\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. October , , Soverain filed amended complaint alleging that infringe two additional patents purporting cover \x93Digital Active Advertising\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Open Network Payment System for Providing Real-Time Authorization Payment and Purchase Transactions\x94 ( . Patent . , , ). The patents asserted the amended complaint have since been severed from those asserted the original complaint, and accordingly separate complaint has been filed for those patents. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. January , , IPXL Holdings, LLC brought action against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Virginia. The complaint alleges that aspects our online ordering technology, including -Click ® ordering, infringe patent obtained IPXL purporting cover \x93Electronic Fund Transfer Transaction System\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. August , , the Court entered judgment Amazon com\x92 favor the grounds that the patent claims asserted the plaintiff were invalid and that Amazon com\x92 technology did not infringe those claims any event. The Court also awarded Amazon com its attorneys\x92 fees and costs. Plaintiff appealing that judgment. April , learned that the French authorities are investigating our DVD sales practices France, and are cooperating. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) May , , Toysrus com LLC filed complaint against for breach contract the Superior Court New Jersey. The complaint alleges that breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus com LLC selling, and permitting other third parties sell, products that Toysrus com LLC alleges has exclusive right sell our website. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, declaratory judgment and either monetary damages unspecified amount rescission the commercial agreement and return specific amounts paid under the agreement totaling $ million. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and have brought counterclaims alleging breach contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. September , , BTG International Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our Associates program, infringes two patents obtained BTG purporting cover methods and apparatuses for \x93Attaching Navigational History Information Universal Resource Locator Links World Wide Web Page\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and for \x93Tracking the Navigation Path User the World Wide Web\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. October , Cendant Publishing, Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our recommendations features, infringes patent obtained Cendant purporting cover \x93System and Method for Providing Recommendation Goods Services Based Recorded Purchasing History\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events (Unaudited).\x94 Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, results operations, financial position, cash flows particular period. Inventory Suppliers During , vendor accounted for % more our inventory purchases. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. Note \x97STOCKHOLDERS\x92 DEFICIT Preferred Stock have authorized million shares $ par value Preferred Stock. preferred stock shares were outstanding during , , . Stock Award Plans Employees vest restricted stock unit awards and stock options ratably over the corresponding service term, generally three six years. Outstanding stock options generally have term years from the date grant. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Stock Award Activity granted stock awards, which since October have consisted primarily restricted stock units, representing million, million, and million shares common stock during , , and with per share weighted average fair value $ , $ , and $ . Common shares outstanding (which includes restricted stock), plus shares underlying outstanding stock options and restricted stock units totaled million, million, and million December , , and . Common shares outstanding increased million shares and million shares during and , due exercises stock options, vesting restricted stock units, and matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan. The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity ( thousands): Outstanding December , \x97 Units granted , Units vested \x97 Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , , Units granted , Units vested ( ) Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , , Units granted , Units vested ( ) Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , , Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units December , follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Scheduled annual vesting\x97restricted stock units , , , , , The following table summarizes our stock option activity: Number Shares ( thousands) Weighted Average Exercise Price Balance December , , $ Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Additionally, granted million shares and terminated million shares restricted stock . shares restricted stock were granted terminated . matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan, granted million and million shares common stock and . matching contributions were made . Shares granted matching contributions under our ( ) plan and shares restricted stock are included outstanding common stock when issued. The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding December , : Stock Awards Outstanding Awards Vested Range Exercise Prices Number Awards ( thousands) Remaining Life (yrs) Weighted Average Exercise Price Number Awards ( thousands) Weighted Average Exercise Price \x96 , $ , $ \x96 , , \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 , , Common Stock Available for Future Issuance December , , common stock available for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock awards , Shares issuable upon conversion % Convertible Subordinated Notes , Shares issuable upon conversion % PEACS , Total common stock reserved for future issuance , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The changes the components other comprehensive income (loss) were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , ( thousands) Net income (loss) $ , $ , $ ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains ( ) , , Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the year , , , Less reclassification net realized (gains) losses included net income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities: ( , ) , , Net activity terminated Euro Currency Swap: Remeasurement Euro Currency Swap fair value \x97 , , Reclassification (gains) losses offset currency losses and gains hedged portion % PEACS included net income (loss) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Amortization net unrealized losses terminated euro Currency Swap , , \x97 Net activity terminated Euro Currency Swap , , , Tax effect other comprehensive income, net ( , ) \x97 \x97 Other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) , , Comprehensive income (loss) $ , $ , $ ( , ) Tax effect other comprehensive income relates the following components ( thousands): Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities Unrealized gains arising during the year $ , Reclassification net realized gains included net income ( , ) ( , ) Amortization net unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap , Net tax effect other comprehensive income $ ( , ) Accumulated balances within other comprehensive income were follows ( thousands): December , ( thousands) Net unrealized gains foreign currency translation $ , $ , Net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities, net tax , , Net unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax ( , ) ( , ) Total accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97OTHER OPERATING EXPENSE (INCOME) Other operating expense (income) was $( ) million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , which includes restructuring-related expenses (credits) and amortization other intangibles. Restructuring-related expenses (credits) were $( ) million, $ million, and $ million; and amortization other intangibles was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . During , determined that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which had been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, was necessary for our future needs. reduced our restructuring-related liability resulting gain $ million for . Lease payments for this office space are expensed over the lease period and classified the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. , streamlined our organizational structure France reduce our operating costs. These efforts were primarily focused eliminating French-office positions managerial, professional, clerical, and technical roles. The number employees affected totaled and resulted severance costs $ million classified \x93Other operating expense (income)\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Restructuring-related charges were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , ( thousands) Asset impairments $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Continuing lease obligations ( , ) , Termination benefits , \x97 \x97 Broker commissions, professional fees, and other miscellaneous restructuring costs ( ) \x97 Total restructuring-related charges $ ( , ) $ $ , December , , the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related and other charges was $ million and consisted the following: Balance December , Subsequent Accruals (Credits), net Payments Balance December , Due Within Months( ) Due After Months( ) ( thousands) Lease obligations, net estimated sublease income $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , Termination benefits \x97 , ( , ) , , \x97 Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , ( ) ( ) \x97 Total restructuring-related liability $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Restructuring-related liabilities due within months are classified \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 and liabilities due after months are classified \x93Long-term debt and other\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows: Thereafter Total ( thousands) Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Estimated net lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Note \x97OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other income (expense), net consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Gains sales marketable securities, net $ $ , $ , Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( ) ( ) Total other income (expense), net $ ( , ) $ , $ , Foreign-currency transaction losses primarily relate the interest payable our % PEACS. Since these payments are settled Euros, the balance interest payable (which paid annually February) subject gains losses resulting from changes exchange rates between the . Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and payment. Note \x97REMEASUREMENTS AND OTHER Remeasurements and other consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Foreign-currency losses remeasurement % PEACS ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Gain sales Euro-denominated investments, net , , , Gain sales equity investments, net , , Loss redemption long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) \x97 Loss termination Euro Currency Swap ( ) \x97 ( , ) \x97 Foreign-currency effect intercompany balances ( ) , , \x97 Other-than-temporary impairments and other ( ) , ( , ) ( , ) Total remeasurements and other $ ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Each period the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars results gains losses recorded \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. ( ) Represents the remaining basis our swap asset upon date termination. ( ) Represents the gains associated with the remeasurement intercompany balances due changes foreign exchange rates. See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) Included gain $ million relating the settlement contractual dispute, and included and $ million and $ million losses from equity-method investees. equity-method losses income were reported . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97INCOME TAXES Cash taxes paid were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . The components the provision for income taxes, net are follows: December , Current taxes: . and state $ , $ $ International , , ( ) Current taxes , , ( ) Deferred taxes ( , ) ( ) Provision for income taxes, net $ ( , ) $ , $ ( ) . and international components income (loss) before income taxes are follows: December , . $ , $ , $ ( , ) International ( , ) ( , ) , Income (loss) before income taxes $ , $ , $ ( , ) Total income tax expense/(benefit) and amounts allocated stockholders\x92 deficit were follows: Income from continuing operations $ ( , ) $ , $ ( ) Stockholders\x92 deficit ( , ) ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , $ ( ) The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision (benefit) recorded for income taxes are follows: December , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Decrease beginning- -year balance the valuation allowance ( )% ( )% ( )% Net operating losses foreign subsidiaries not benefited % % ( )% Permanent differences, state income taxes, and other ( )% % % Total ( )% % % AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The significant components deferred income tax expense/(benefit) attributable income from continuing operations for the year ended December , are follows: For the year ended December , Deferred tax expense/(benefit) exclusive the effect the items listed below $ , $ , $ , Decrease beginning- -year balance the valuation allowance ( , ) \x97 \x97 Tax benefit net operating loss carryforwards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total deferred tax expense/(benefit) $ ( , ) $ $ ( ) Deferred income taxes were: December , Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses $ , $ , Assets held for investment , , Revenue items , , Expense items, including stock-based compensation , , Tax credits , \x97 Total gross deferred tax assets , , , , Less valuation allowance ( , ) ( , , ) Net deferred tax assets , , Deferred tax liabilities: Expense items ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred tax $ , $ , Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. periodically evaluate the likelihood the realization deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount these deferred tax assets valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience taxing jurisdiction, expectations future taxable income, the carryforward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Significant judgment required making this assessment, and very difficult predict when, ever, our assessment may conclude that the remaining portion our deferred tax assets are realizable. had net tax benefit $ million, representing $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share, resulting primarily from the effect changes our valuation assessment deferred tax assets during . connection with this assessment also recorded net credit \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit\x94 $ million our consolidated balance sheet for . December , , our gross deferred tax assets related our NOLs were approximately $ million (relating approximately $ billion NOLs), offset valuation allowance approximately $ million AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) due uncertainty about their future realization. the future determine that the remaining $ million NOL deferred tax assets more likely than not realizable, substantially all would credited \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit\x94 rather than the income statement since they primarily relate tax-deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. The majority our NOLs expire after . addition, utilization NOLs may subject certain limitations under Sections and the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. also have approximately $ million deferred tax assets relating approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards that expire and thereafter. Due uncertainty regarding future realization, have provided full valuation allowance for this portion our deferred tax asset. have not provided for . deferred income taxes foreign withholding taxes non- . subsidiaries\x92 undistributed earnings totaling $ million December , because these earnings are intended permanently reinvested operations outside the United States. Note \x97SEGMENT INFORMATION have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our chief operating decision maker reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. Direct segment operating expenses include the operating expenses \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 and \x93General and administrative,\x94 but not \x93Stock-based compensation\x94 \x93Other operating income (expense).\x94 significant majority our costs for \x93Technology and content\x94 are incurred the United States and most these costs are allocated our North America segment. There are internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from third-party sellers) through www amazon com and www amazon , from North America focused Syndicated Stores and mail-order catalogs, and from non-retail activities such North America focused Merchant com, marketing, and promotional agreements. International The International segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from third-party sellers) through internationally-focused websites, such www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com , from internationally-focused Syndicated Stores and from non-retail activities such internationally-focused marketing and promotional agreements. This segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income (loss) follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , , Gross profit , , , , , Direct segment operating expenses , , , , Segment operating income , , , Stock-based compensation , Other operating income ( , ) Income from operations , Total non-operating expense, net , Benefit from income taxes, net ( , ) Net income $ , Year Ended December , : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , , Gross profit , , , , Direct segment operating expenses , , , Segment operating income , , , Stock-based compensation , Other operating expenses , Income from operations , Total non-operating expense, net , Provision for income taxes, net , Net income $ , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Year Ended December , : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , Gross profit , , , Direct segment operating expenses , , , Segment operating income , , Stock-based compensation , Other operating income , Income from operations , Total non-operating expense, net , Provision for income taxes, net ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) Net loss $ ( , ) Net sales shipped customers outside the . represented approximately %, %, and % net sales for , , and . Net sales from www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon each represented % more consolidated net sales , and net sales from www amazon and www amazon each represented % more consolidated net sales and . Net fixed assets held locations outside the . were $ million, $ million, and $ million December , , , and . Total assets, segment, reconciled consolidated amounts were ( thousands): December , North America $ , , $ , , $ , , International , , , , Consolidated $ , , $ , , $ , , Depreciation expense, segment, was follows ( thousands): North America International Consolidated $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97FAIR VALUES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amount and estimated fair values our financial instruments were follows ( thousands): December , Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying Amount Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Marketable securities ( ) , , , , Other equity investments ( ) , , , , Long-term debt ( ) , , , , , , , , ( ) The fair value marketable securities determined from publicly quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 ( ) The fair value other equity investments determined from publicly quoted prices, plus the carrying amount privately-held investments for which market values are not readily determinable. evaluate \x93Other equity investments\x94 for impairment accordance with our stated policy. See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) The fair value our long-term debt determined based quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Note \x97QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter , , and . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Unaudited quarterly results were follows ( thousands, except per share data): Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross profit , , , , Net income , , , , Basic earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross profit , , , , Net income (loss) , , ( , ) ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 $ Net income (loss) , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. Note \x97SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (UNAUDITED) March , , redeemed million Euros principal our % PEACS for cash payment $ million, which includes $ million interest from and including February through March , . Under the Indenture, premium was required. March , , the outstanding principal amount our % PEACS was million Euros ($ million using the Euro . Dollar exchange rate that date). Regarding litigation matters, March , signed Stipulation Settlement with counsel representing the alleged plaintiff class, with respect the Act claims the Securities Class Actions. approved the court, the settlement would dispose all claims arising under the Act, but not the Act, exchange for payment $ , , , most not all which expect funded our insurers. the Pinpoint litigation, the lawsuit was refiled March the . District Court for the Northern District Illinois after being dismissed without prejudice the same court December . the Cendant litigation, Cendant voluntarily withdrew its complaint without prejudice February . However, expect the plaintiff refile the claims unless they are otherwise settled disposed . See \x93Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies\x97Legal Proceedings.\x94 Item . hanges and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. Item . Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures carried out evaluation required the Act, under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act, December , . Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, December , , our disclosure controls and procedures were effective timely alerting them material information required included our periodic SEC reports. Management\x92 Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting December , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. result this assessment, management concluded that, December , , our internal control over financial reporting was effective providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young LLP has issued attestation report management\x92 assessment internal control over financial reporting, copy which included this annual report Form - . Limitations Controls Management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures our internal control over financial reporting will prevent detect all error and fraud. Any control system, matter how well designed and operated, based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will met. Further, evaluation controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due error fraud will not occur that all control issues and instances fraud, any, within the Company have been detected. Report Ernst & Young LLP Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited management\x92 assessment, included the accompanying Management\x92 Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Amazon com, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting, December , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Amazon com, Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility express opinion management\x92 assessment and opinion the effectiveness the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management\x92 assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, management\x92 assessment that Amazon com, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting December , , fairly stated, all material respects, based the COSO criteria. Also, our opinion, Amazon com, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 deficit, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , Amazon com, Inc. and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / RNST & OUNG LLP Seattle, Washington February , Item . Other Information None. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part \x93Business\x97Executive Officers and Directors.\x94 Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating our Code Business Conduct and Ethics and compliance with Section ( ) the Act set forth our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . ecurity Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Deficit for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule \x97Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) Index Exhibits Exhibit Number Description Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Diego Piacentini, dated January , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Kal Raman, dated July , . Exhibit Number Description \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). List Significant Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreement SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this Report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, March , . AMAZON COM, INC. : / / EFFREY . EZOS Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this Report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities indicated March , . Signature Title / / EFFREY . EZOS Jeffrey . Bezos Chairman the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) / / HOMAS . ZKUTAK Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) / / ARK . EEK Mark . Peek Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) / / . LBERG Tom . Alberg Director / / OHN EELY ROWN John Seely Brown Director / / . OHN OERR . John Doerr Director / / ILLIAM . ORDON William . Gordon Director / / YRTLE . OTTER Myrtle . Potter Director / / HOMAS . YDER Thomas . Ryder Director / / ATRICIA . TONESIFER Patricia . Stonesifer Director AMAZON COM, INC. SCHEDULE \x97VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Accounts receivable and other current assets\x97Reserves Balance Beginning Period Charged Costs and Expenses Amounts Written Off Balance End Period ( thousands) December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , , , ( , ) , December , , , ( ) , EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Diego Piacentini, dated January , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Kal Raman, dated July , . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Exhibit Number Description \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). List Significant Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreemen', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties not own any real estate. December , , operated the following facilities throughout the world: Primary Locations Square Footage ( )( ) Operating Segments Description Use Lease Expirations ( ) Palo Alto and San Francisco, California; Seattle, Washington , North America Corporate office facilities. From through . Beijing and Shanghai, China; Slough, England; Luxembourg City, Luxembourg; Munich, Germany; Paris, France; Tokyo, Japan , International Other corporate office facilities, including development centers. From through . , Sub-total Campbellsville and Lexington, Kentucky; Chambersburg, Pennsylvania; Coffeyville, Kansas; Fernley and Reno, Nevada; Grand Forks, North Dakota; New Castle, Delaware , , North America Fulfillment and warehouse operations ( )( ). From through . Bad Hersfeld, Germany; Beijing, Guangzhou, and Shanghai, China; Gourock, Scotland; Marston Gate, England; Orleans, France , , International Fulfillment and warehouse operations ( )( ). From through . , , Sub-total ( ) Includes approximately , square feet vacant space and excludes sub-leased space. ( ) Includes automated fulfillment centers utilizing sortation and other automation equipment, and less automated fulfillment centers generally specializing larger dimension product fulfillment. ( ) Additionally, have approximately , square feet leased space utilized our customer service operations domestic and international locations, and , square feet leased space utilized for data centers. ( ) Leases expiring primarily have renewal features our option. ( ) Excludes facilities operated under -sourcing arrangements Japan and Canada. believe our properties are suitable and adequate for our present needs, and periodically evaluate whether additional facilities are necessary. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings number purported class action complaints were filed holders our equity and debt securities against , our directors, and certain our senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Securities Exchange Act (the \x93 Act\x94). August , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed second consolidated amended complaint alleging that , together with certain our officers and directors, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through October , concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects, and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and have been vigorously defending ourselves these matters. March , signed Stipulation Settlement with counsel representing the alleged plaintiff class with respect the Act claims. approved the Court, the settlement would dispose all claims arising under the Act, but not the Act, exchange for payment $ , , , most not all which expect funded our insurers. October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys\x92 fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint, and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Beginning March , were served with complaints filed several different states, including Illinois and Nevada, private litigant purportedly behalf the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that (along with other companies with which have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales personal property customers those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating were not required collect remit such taxes. The complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys\x92 fees, civil penalties $ , per violation, and treble punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. possible that have been will named similar cases other states well. not believe that are liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure collect sales other taxes relating Internet sales and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. July , , Pinpoint, Inc. filed complaint for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Northern District Illinois against and several other companies with which have commercial agreements. The original complaint was dismissed without prejudice December , but the lawsuit was -filed March the same court. The complaint alleges that our personalization technology infringes patents obtained Pinpoint and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. January , , Soverain Software LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes several patents obtained Soverain purporting cover \x93Internet Server Access Control and Monitoring Systems\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Network Sales Systems\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. October , , Soverain filed amended complaint alleging that infringe two additional patents purporting cover \x93Digital Active Advertising\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Open Network Payment System for Providing Real-Time Authorization Payment and Purchase Transactions\x94 ( . Patent . , , ). The patents asserted the amended complaint have since been severed from those asserted the original complaint, and accordingly separate complaint has been filed for those patents. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. January , , IPXL Holdings, LLC brought action against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Virginia. The complaint alleges that aspects our online ordering technology, including -Click ® ordering, infringe patent obtained IPXL purporting cover \x93Electronic Fund Transfer Transaction System\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. August , , the Court entered judgment Amazon com\x92 favor the grounds that the patent claims asserted the plaintiff were invalid and that Amazon com\x92 technology did not infringe those claims any event. The Court also awarded Amazon com its attorneys\x92 fees and costs. Plaintiff appealing that judgment. April , learned that the French authorities are investigating our DVD sales practices France, and are cooperating. May , , Toysrus com LLC filed complaint against for breach contract the Superior Court New Jersey. The complaint alleges that breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus com LLC selling, and permitting other third parties sell, products that Toysrus com LLC alleges has exclusive right sell our website. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, declaratory judgment and either monetary damages unspecified amount rescission the commercial agreement and return specific amounts paid under the agreement totaling $ million. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and have brought counterclaims alleging breach contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. September , , BTG International Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our Associates program, infringes two patents obtained BTG purporting cover methods and apparatuses for \x93Attaching Navigational History Information Universal Resource Locator Links World Wide Web Page\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and for \x93Tracking the Navigation Path User the World Wide Web\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. October , Cendant Publishing, Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our recommendations features, infringes patent obtained Cendant purporting cover \x93System and Method for Providing Recommendation Goods Services Based Recorded Purchasing History\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. February , Cendant voluntarily withdrew the complaint without prejudice. However, expect the plaintiff -file the claims unless they are settled otherwise disposed . Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, results operations, financial position, cash flows particular period. ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted for vote our shareholders during the fourth quarter . PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock and Related Shareholder Matters Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for our common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Holders February , , there were , shareholders record our common stock, although there are much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Recent Sales Unregistered Securities October , , Anza Properties exercised portion their warrant and received , shares our common stock per share exercise price $ . assumed this warrant obligation connection with acquisition. The shares were issued reliance exemption from registration under Section ( )( ) under the Act. Issuer Purchases Equity Securities None. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\x94 and the information contained Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations.\x94 Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. Year Ended December , ( thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net income (loss) , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Basic earnings per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principal $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principal \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 Basic earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principal $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principal \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 Diluted earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Balance Sheet and Other Data: Total assets $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Long-term debt and other , , , , , , , , , , ( ) For further discussion earnings (loss) per share, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\x92 current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, fluctuations foreign exchange rates, changes global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate growth the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon com invests new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, competition, management growth, potential fluctuations operating results, international growth and expansion, fulfillment center optimization, risks inventory management, seasonality, the degree which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, and risks fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , \x93Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results,\x94 which, along with the previous discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. Overview Our primary source revenue the sale wide range products and services customers our global websites . The products offered our websites include products have purchased from distributors, publishers, and manufacturers and products offered third parties our websites. Generally, recognize gross revenue from items sell from our inventory and recognize our net share revenue items sold third parties. Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow . Free cash flow driven primarily increasing operating income and efficiently managing working capital and capital expenditures. Increases operating income result from increases sales through our websites and focus keeping our operating costs low, offset investments make longer-term strategic initiatives including hiring additional software engineers and computer scientists. increase sales, focus improving all aspects the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, increasing selection, expanding product information, improving ease use, and earning customer trust. Our price reductions take several forms: reduce the sales prices products sell, recruit third-party sellers compete with product detail pages, and reduce eliminate the cost shipping the consumer. also seek efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility issue shares for strategic purposes, such financings and aligning employee interests with shareholders. moved restricted stock units our primary vehicle for equity compensation late because believe they better align the interests our shareholders and employees. Restricted stock units result charges our income statement based the fair value the awards the grant date recorded over the underlying service periods. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were million December , , compared with million December , and . seek leverage our fixed customer experience costs and work reduce our variable costs per unit. Our customer experience costs, specifically the costs necessary build, enhance, and add features our websites and build and optimize our fulfillment centers, are largely fixed that they not vary directly with sales. The customer experience costs that remain variable percentage sales include product costs; credit-card processing fees; bad debt; picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment; transportation; customer service support; and most aspects our marketing costs. decrease our variable costs per unit basis and enable lower prices for customers, seek increase our direct publisher and manufacturer sourcing; seek maximize volume discounts available from suppliers; and focus maintaining lean culture, including reducing defects our processes. Free cash flow defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our statements cash flows. Because are able turn our inventory quickly, have negative operating cycle that source cash flow . average, our high inventory velocity means generally collect from our customers before our payments suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was , , for , , and . expect some variability inventory turnover over time since affected several factors, including our product mix, our mix third-party sales, our continuing focus -stock inventory availability, our future investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent choose utilize outsource fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days were , , and for , and . expect some variability accounts payable days over time since affected several factors, including the mix product sales, the mix third-party sales, the mix suppliers, and changes payment terms over time, including the effect negotiating better pricing from our suppliers exchange for shorter payment terms. Our spending technology and content will increase add computer scientists and software engineers continue improve our process efficiency and enhance the customer experience our websites. believe that advances technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost processing power, the improved consumer experience the Internet outside the workplace through lower-cost broadband service the home, and the advances wireless connectivity will continue improve the consumer experience the Internet and increase its ubiquity people\x92 lives. Our challenge will continue build and deploy innovative and efficient software that will best take advantage continued advances technology. Our financial reporting currency the . Dollar and changes exchange rates significantly affect our reported results, including trends. For example, our total revenue, profit, and operating and free cash flow have recently benefited significantly from weakness the . Dollar comparison the currencies our internationally-focused websites. While believe that our increasing diversification beyond the . economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders, important also evaluate our growth rates before the effect currency changes. For example, while our revenues increased % during comparison with the prior year, holding currency exchange constant with the prior year our growth would have been %. the future, this trend may reverse, and our consolidated . Dollar revenue growth rates would less than our local-currency growth rates. may have significant variation our future reported results. believe that our reported net income for should not viewed, its own, material positive event, and the year-over-year increase net income $ million not necessarily predictive our future results for variety reasons. For example, had primarily non-cash net benefit from income taxes $ million resulting primarily from changes valuation deferred tax assets associated with our net operating loss carryforwards attributable continuing operations. Additionally, the remeasurement our % Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities (\x93PEACS\x94) and intercompany balances resulted significant gains and charges associated with the effect movements currency exchange rates. Accordingly, encourage readers our financial statements evaluate the effect our operating trends these items since future income taxes and changes currency exchange rates may create significant variability our future operating results. For additional information about each line item summarized above, refer Item Part , \x93Financial Statements\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles the United States (\x93GAAP\x94) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and The operating cycle number days sales inventory plus number days sales accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. Inventory turnover the quotient annualized cost sales average inventory over five quarters. Accounts payable days, calculated the quotient accounts payable cost sales, multiplied the number days the period. liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company\x92 critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company\x92 financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Although believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, conditions. Revenue Recognition recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are the primary party obligated transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Under our Syndicated Stores arrangements, record gross product sales and costs since own the inventory, set prices, and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service, and the other business earns sales commission. Product sales and shipping revenues, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue our best estimate expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. Amounts paid advance for subscription services, including amounts received for online DVD rentals and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized revenue over the subscription term. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and similar amounts earned through our Merchant com program are recognized when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. Outbound shipping charges customers are included \x93Net sales\x94 and, excluding amounts earned from third-party sellers where don\x92 provide fulfillment services, amounted $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. provide fulfillment-related services connection with certain our Merchants@ and Merchant com programs. those arrangements, well other product sales third parties, the third-party maintains ownership the related products. Internal-Use Software Included fixed assets the capitalized cost internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business. accordance with Statement Position (\x93SOP\x94) - , \x93Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use,\x94 capitalize costs incurred during the application development stage related the development internal-use software and amortize these costs over the estimated useful life two years. Costs incurred related design maintenance internal-use software are expensed incurred. During , , and capitalized $ million, $ million, and $ million costs associated with development internal-use software, which offset amortization previously capitalized amounts $ million, $ million, and $ million. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs, and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. Additionally, may determine, did , that certain the office space vacated part our restructuring, which have been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, may necessary for our future needs. the extent elect utilize this office space, adjust our restructuring-related liability and classify future payments the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. Currency Effect Intercompany Balances provision Statement Financial Accounting Standard (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, which settlement not planned anticipated the foreseeable future, excluded the determination net income. Our international operations are financed, part, the . parent company. Prior the fourth quarter , currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were recorded stockholders\x92 deficit translation adjustments and not included the determination net income because intended permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter , made the decision that these amounts would repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation, any exchange gain loss arising from remeasurements intercompany balances required recorded the determination net income. accordance with SFAS . , currency adjustments arising before the fourth quarter continue included component \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. Resulting from the remeasurement intercompany balances using exchange rates the reporting dates, recorded gains $ million and $ million for and . Repayments among the entities during were $ million. Valuation Deferred Tax Assets SFAS , \x93 Accounting for Income Taxes,\x94 requires that deferred tax assets evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets including our recent cumulative earnings experience taxing jurisdiction, expectations future taxable income, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. December , , our net deferred tax assets are $ million, comprised approximately $ million relating our net operating loss carryforwards (\x93NOLs\x94), with the remaining portion related temporary timing differences between tax and financial reporting. Classification deferred tax assets between current and long-term categories based the expected timing realization, and the valuation allowance allocated pro-rata basis. had net tax benefit $ million resulting primarily from the effect changes our valuation assessment deferred tax assets during . connection with this assessment, also recorded net credit \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit\x94 $ million our consolidated balance sheet . The range possible judgments relating the valuation our deferred tax assets very wide. For example, had determined that the weight available evidence did not support decision that portion our deferred tax asset will realized, the amount recorded \x93Provision (benefit) for income taxes\x94 would have been expense $ million (rather than benefit $ million) for . Alternatively, had concluded that the weight available evidence supported decision that substantially all our deferred tax assets may realized, would have recorded substantially larger credit \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit.\x94 Significant judgment required making this assessment, and very difficult predict when, ever, our assessment may conclude that the remaining portion our deferred tax assets are realizable. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow . Free cash flow was $ million for compared $ million for , increase %. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can volatile and are sensitive many factors, including changes working capital. Working capital any specific point time subject many variables, including seasonality, the timing expense payments, discounts offered vendors, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which were $ billion and $ billion the end and . Amounts held foreign currencies were $ million and $ million the end and , and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. Cash provided operating activities was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers and third-party sellers, offset cash payments make suppliers products and services, employee compensation, credit card transaction fees, bad debt, and interest payments our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from Free cash flow defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our statements cash flows. customers and third-party sellers generally corresponds our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards buy from , our receivables from customers settle quickly. Cash paid inventory and transportation suppliers generally corresponds with cost sales, adjusted for increases decreases inventory and payable levels. During , payments product merchandise suppliers, which not include payments transportation suppliers, totaled $ billion, increase $ billion over the prior year. The increase payments product merchandise suppliers corresponds with cost sales, and with our efforts add product categories, increase selection products offer for sale, improve availability both existing and new product categories, and take advantage additional discounts offered suppliers, and also affected foreign exchange rates. Cash provided (used ) investing activities corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities marketable securities and purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development costs. Cash used investing activities was $ million and $ , while cash provided investing activities was $ million with the variability caused primarily maturities marketable securities. Our capital expenditures, including internal-use software and website development, were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investment development new features and product offerings our websites over time. believe our expenditures for repairs and improvements are sufficient keep our facilities and equipment suitable operating condition. September , acquired all the outstanding shares Joyo com purchase price $ million, including cash payment (net cash acquired) $ million, the assumption employee stock options, and transaction-related costs. Cash paid connection with this acquisition classified cash provided (used ) investing activities our consolidated statements cash flows. The operating results Joyo com did not have significant effect consolidated results for . See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Business Acquisition.\x94 Cash used financing activities was $ million and $ million . This compares cash provided financing activities $ million . Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from exercises employee stock options, which were $ million , $ million , and $ million for . expect cash proceeds from exercises stock options will decline over time continue issuing restricted stock units our primary vehicle for stock-based awards. Cash outflows from financing activities result from repayments long-term debt and payments capital lease obligations, which were $ million , $ million , and $ million . During , paid $ million, which includes redemption premium $ million, redeem portion our % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % Convertible Subordinated Notes\x94). See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 recorded primarily non-cash net benefit $ million \x93Provision (benefit) for income taxes\x94 relating primarily our valuation deferred tax assets. expect our cash taxes paid approximately $ million, compared with $ million . March , , redeemed million Euros principal our % PEACS for cash payment $ million, which includes $ million interest from and including February through March , . Under the Indenture, premium was required. March , , the outstanding principal amount our % PEACS was million Euros ($ million using the Euro . Dollar exchange rate that date). Additionally, March , our Board Directors authorized new debt repurchase program, replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization its entirety, pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem, otherwise retire aggregate $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS. Since our % PEACS, which are due , are denominated Euros, our . Dollar equivalent interest payments and principal obligations fluctuate with the Euro . Dollar exchange rate. currently not hedge our exposure foreign currency effects our interest principal obligations relating the % PEACS, and, result, any fluctuations the exchange rate will have effect our interest expense and, the extent make principal payments, the amount . Dollar equivalents necessary for principal settlement. Additionally, since our interest payable our % PEACS due Euros, the balance interest payable subject gains losses currency movements until the date the interest payment. Gains losses the remeasurement our Euro-denominated interest payable are classified \x93Other expense (income), net\x94 our consolidated statements operations. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments December , : Thereafter Total ( thousands) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and other ( ) $ $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ , , Debt interest ( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases ( ) , , , , , , , Purchase obligations ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Total operating and capital commitments , , , , , , , , , , Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income ( ) , , , , , , , Other , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Total restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , $ , , ( ) The principal payment due and the annual interest payments due under our % PEACS fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, which, December , , was . December , , our principal debt obligation for the % PEACS has increased $ million since its issuance February due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. Additionally, March , , redeemed million Euros our outstanding % PEACS, which not reflected the table above. ( ) Pursuant SFAS . , \x93Accounting for Leases , \x94 lease agreements are categorized their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for , pursuant SFAS . they are not reflected the balance sheet. December , , have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real estate $ million. had applied our operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not accordance with GAAP, would have recorded approximately $ million additional obligations our balance sheet December , . ( ) Consists primarily legally-binding commitments purchase inventory. Legally-binding commitments associated with non-inventory purchases are not significant. ( ) Net estimated $ million sublease rentals. December , , had signed sublease agreements totaling $ million. Pledged Securities are required pledge portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. The amount required pledged for real estate lease agreements changes over the life our leases; with fluctuations our market capitalization, which common shares outstanding multiplied the closing price our common stock; and based our credit-rating. The change the total amount collateral required pledged under these agreements follows: Standby Letters Credit ( ) Line Credit ( ) Real Estate Leases ( ) Total ( thousands) Balance December , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) Balance December , ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Pursuant available standby letter- -credit facilities totaling $ million. ( ) Pursuant available line credit totaling $ million. ( ) The required amount collateral pledged certain our real estate leases fluctuates based our market capitalization. December , , our market capitalization was $ billion. our market capitalization decreases, the required amount collateral pledged will increase $ million ( market capitalization less than $ billion but more than $ billion) $ million ( our market capitalization less than $ billion). ( ) Includes $ million cash equivalents pledged collateral. See \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, repurchase, refinance, otherwise restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities would likely dilutive our shareholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition , investment , complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that lines- -credit financing instruments will available amounts terms acceptable , all. Results Operations have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our chief operating decision maker reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. Net Sales and Gross Profit Net sales information follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Net Sales: North America $ , , $ , , $ , , International , , , , , , Consolidated $ , , $ , , $ , , Net Sales Growth Rate: North America % % % International Consolidated Net Sales Mix: North America % % % International Consolidated % % % Revenue growth due primarily increased demand driven increased selection, lower prices, including from our free shipping offers, and improved features and services available our websites. Revenue growth also affected changes exchange rates. See \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 below for additional information the effect reported revenue changes exchange rates. Net sales from \x93Other\x94 consist non-retail activities, such our Merchant com program, miscellaneous marketing and promotional activities, and our -branded credit card program. North America revenue growth rate was consistent with %, from our growth rate %. The increase growth rates from reflects our efforts increase product categories and selection available our websites, and continue reducing prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers. International revenue growth rate declined and compared the prior year periods, which reflects several factors. These factors include the increasing size our business, which naturally causes growth rates decline over time, offset our customer experience initiatives including new category introductions; increased selection; the introduction our third-party offerings the , Germany, Japan, and France; and our efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers. International segment revenue growth rates are also affected changes exchange rates. The relative mix worldwide net sales attributed our International segment continues increase, and expect that, over time, our International segment will represent % more our consolidated total. Additionally, continue offer increased selection, lower prices, and additional product lines our Electronics and other general merchandise category, expect see the relative mix sales from this category increase. Gross profit information follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Gross Profit: North America $ , , $ , $ , International , , , Consolidated $ , , $ , , $ , Gross Profit Growth Rate: North America % % % International Consolidated Gross Margin: North America % % % International Consolidated The increases gross profit absolute terms during and compared prior year periods correspond with increased revenue, including from increased sales volume third-party sellers, offset our year-round free shipping offers and lower prices for customers. Generally, our gross margins fluctuate based several factors, including our product and geographic mix sales during the year; sales volumes third-party sellers; changes vendor pricing; lowering prices for customers, including from competitive pricing decisions; and the extent which our customers accept our free shipping offers. Free shipping offers reduce shipping revenue and reduce our gross margins retail sales. view our shipping offers effective marketing tool and intend continue offering them indefinitely. Additionally, , introduced new shipping membership program, Amazon Prime, which members receive free two-day shipping and discounted overnight shipping. North America segment gross margin was consistent with , with each these years down slightly from . Changes mix product sales towards lower gross margin product categories and price reductions for our customers, including from our year-round free shipping offers, were offset partially increased sales volume third-party sellers and volume discounts receive from our product suppliers. International segment gross margins declined during and compared prior periods resulting from our efforts continue reducing prices for customers, including from our free shipping offers, and from shift mix product sales towards lower gross margin product categories, offset partially increases sales volume third-party sellers. Sales products third-party sellers our websites continue increase, representing %, %, and % unit sales , , and . Since revenues from these sales are recorded net amount, they generally result lower revenues but higher gross margin per unit. product sales third-party sellers continue increase, anticipate the higher gross margin attributes these sales will partially offset the effect our gross margins our strategy lower prices for customers over time offering additional broader price reductions, free shipping offers, and other promotions. Gross profit growth also affected changes exchange rates. See \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 below for additional information the effect reported gross profit changes exchange rates. Supplemental Information Supplemental information about shipping results follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue $ , $ , $ , Outbound shipping costs ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net shipping cost $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) believe that offering low prices our customers fundamental our future success. One way offer lower prices through free-shipping offers that result net cost delivering products. Additionally, , continued lower prices, including introducing new shipping membership program, Amazon Prime, which members receive free two-day shipping and discounted overnight shipping. seek partially offset these costs over time through achieving higher sales volumes, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies, including reducing split-shipments. Supplemental information about our net sales follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Net Sales: North America Media $ , , $ , , $ , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , , Other , , , Total North America $ , , $ , , $ , , International Media $ , , $ , , $ , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other , , , Total International $ , , $ , , $ , , Consolidated Media $ , , $ , , $ , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , , , Other , , , Total consolidated $ , , $ , , $ , , Net Sales Growth Rate: North America Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total North America International Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other ( ) Total International Consolidated Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated % % % North America % % % International Total consolidated % % % Direct Segment Operating Expenses Information about the operating expense categories that allocate our segment results follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Segment Operating Expenses: North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , Percent Net Sales: North America % % % International Segment Operating Expenses: Fulfillment ( ) $ , $ , $ , Marketing ( ) , , , Technology and content ( ) , , , General and administrative ( ) , , , Percent Net Sales: Fulfillment ( ) % % % Marketing ( ) Technology and content ( ) General and administrative ( ) Year-over-year Percentage Change: Fulfillment ( ) % % % Marketing ( ) ( ) ( ) Technology and content ( ) ( ) ( ) General and administrative ( ) ( ) ( ) Fulfillment The increase fulfillment costs absolute dollars comparison with the prior year relates variable costs corresponding with sales volume; our mix product sales; costs associated with credit card fees; and bad debt costs, including costs our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions. The mix product sales affects fulfillment costs per shipment based variations shape and weight products sell. Additionally, since credit card fees associated with third-party seller transactions are based the gross purchase price underlying transactions, and bad debt costs are higher percentage revenue versus our retail sales, our increasing third-party sales result increasing fulfillment costs percent net sales. Also, during the third quarter began operation new European fulfillment center Scotland and plan expand our fulfillment capacity Japan . Fulfillment costs percentage net sales decreased due improvements productivity and accuracy, the increase units fulfilled, which leverages the fixed-cost portion our fulfillment network, efficiencies gained through utilization fulfillment services provided third parties, decline customer service contacts per unit resulting from improvements our operations, and enhancements our customer self-service features, offset partially increases credit card fees and bad debt, including costs our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions. expect absolute amounts spent fulfillment increase over time. ( ) Marketing direct customers our websites primarily through number targeted online marketing channels, such our Associates and Syndicated Stores programs, sponsored search, portal advertising, -mail campaigns, and other initiatives. Since our marketing expenses are largely variable, expect absolute amounts spent marketing increase over time. the extent there increased decreased competition for these traffic sources, the extent our mix these channels shifts, would expect see corresponding change our marketing expense. Marketing costs increased absolute terms corresponding with revenue growth utilized variable online marketing channels such our Associates and Syndicated Stores programs, sponsored search, and other variable marketing initiatives. While costs associated with free shipping are not included marketing expense, view free shipping effective worldwide marketing tool, and intend continue offering indefinitely. ( ) Technology and Content Our spending technology and content has increased are adding computer scientists and software engineers continue enhance the customer experience our websites and those websites powered and improve our process efficiency. Additionally, continue invest several areas technology, including seller platform; com, our wholly-owned subsidiary focused search technology www com , www amazon com , and other Amazon sites; web services; and digital initiatives. During , , and capitalized $ million, $ million, and $ million costs associated with development internal-use software, which offset amortization previously capitalized amounts $ million, $ million, and $ million. intend continue investing these and other initiatives and expect absolute dollars spent technology and content increase over time continue add computer scientists and software engineers our staff. significant majority these costs are incurred the United States and most them are allocated our North America segment. ( ) General and Administrative The increase spending general and administrative primarily due increases professional fees and litigation costs. expect absolute dollars spent general and administrative increase over time. annual basis , each category direct segment operating expenses has either declined remained flat with percentage net sales. However, for the fourth quarter expenses for \x93Marketing\x94 and \x93Technology and content\x94 percentage net sales increased comparison same period , and this trend may continue. Stock-Based Compensation October , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board reached consensus the effective date for SFAS . 123R (SFAS 123R), Share-Based Payment . SFAS 123R requires measure compensation cost for all outstanding unvested share-based awards fair value beginning July , , however will early-adopt the provisions SFAS 123R with implementation date January , . The adoption this standard will not affect the stock-based compensation associated with our restricted stock and restricted stock units which are already recorded fair value the date grant and recognized over the service period, but will result the recognition stock-based compensation future periods for remaining unvested stock options the effective date. the implementation date this standard, will longer have employee stock awards subject variable accounting treatment. estimate that stock-based compensation for will $ million. See also Item Part , \x93Financial Statements\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x96Stock-based Compensation\x94 for our SFAS . pro forma disclosures using fair value accounting treatment. Stock-based compensation consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Stock awards\x97variable accounting ( ) $ , $ , $ , Fixed accounting ( ): Restricted stock units ( ) , , , Restricted stock ( ) , , , Total stock-based compensation $ , $ , $ , ( ) Variable accounting treatment results expense contra-expense recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated based the quoted price our common stock and vesting schedules underlying awards. the extent stock options are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 ( ) The fair value awards determined grant date based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense over the service period using the accelerated method under FIN . , Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option Award Plans . the extent awards are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset stock-based compensation. ( ) Since October , have awarded restricted stock units our primary form stock-based compensation. ( ) Includes expense associated with matching contributions million and million shares our common stock under our ( ) savings plan during and . matching contributions were made . December , , had million stock awards outstanding, including million stock options with $ weighted average exercise price; million restricted stock units; and million shares restricted stock. Common shares outstanding (which include restricted stock) plus shares underlying stock options and restricted stock units totaled million and million December , and . For additional information about our stock-based compensation and awards see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Stock-based Compensation.\x94 Other Operating Expense (Income) Other operating expense (income) was $( ) million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , which includes restructuring-related expenses (credits) and amortization other intangibles. Restructuring-related expenses (credits) were $( ) million, $ million, and $ million; and amortization other intangibles was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . During , determined that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which had been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, was necessary for our future needs. have reduced our restructuring-related liability resulting gain $ million . Lease-related payments for this office space, approximately $ million per quarter, are expensed over the lease period and classified the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. , streamlined our organizational structure France reduce our operating costs. These efforts were primarily focused eliminating French office positions managerial, professional, clerical, and technical roles. The number employees affected totaled and resulted severance costs $ million classified \x93Other operating expense (income)\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Cash payments resulting from our operational restructurings were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Based currently available information, estimate the remaining restructuring-related cash outflows will follows: Leases Other Total ( thousands) Year Ended December , $ , $ , $ , , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Thereafter , \x97 , Total estimated cash outflows ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Cash flows are presented net estimated $ million sublease rentals. December , , had signed contractual sublease agreements totaling $ million. For additional information about our operational restructuring, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Other Operating Expense (Income).\x94 Income from Operations Our income from operations was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and . These increases primarily result from net sales and gross profit growth and declines operating expenses percent net sales leverage the fixed cost portion our cost structure and seek improve our variable costs through process efficiencies. Additionally, and operating income improved from year-over-year reductions $ million and $ million stock-based compensation expense associated with variable accounting, offset increases stock-based compensation $ million and $ million associated with restricted stock units. Net Interest Expense The primary component our net interest expense the interest incur our long-term debt instruments, including $ million principal balance our % . Convertible Subordinated Notes and million Euros ($ million based the exchange rate December , ) % PEACS December , . Interest expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , with declines primarily relating principal repayments $ million and $ million and . December , , our total long-term indebtedness was $ billion compared $ billion year ago. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 generally invest our excess cash \x93 \x94 rated higher short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance invested funds and the prevailing rates are earning them. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Gains sales marketable securities, net $ $ , $ , Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( ) ( ) Total other income (expense), net $ ( , ) $ , $ , Foreign-currency transaction losses primarily relate the interest payable our % PEACS. Since these payments are settled Euros, the balance interest payable (which paid annually February) subject gains losses resulting from changes exchange rates between the . Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and payment. Remeasurements and Other Remeasurements and other consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Foreign-currency losses remeasurement % PEACS ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Gains sales Euro-denominated investments, net , , , Gains sales equity investments, net , , Loss redemption long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) \x97 Loss termination Euro Currency Swap ( ) \x97 ( , ) \x97 Foreign-currency effect intercompany balances ( ) , , \x97 Other-than-temporary impairments and other ( ) , ( , ) ( , ) Total remeasurements and other $ ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Each period the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars results gains losses recorded \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. ( ) Represents the remaining basis date termination our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion our % PEACS principal and interest. ( ) Represents the gains associated with the remeasurement intercompany balances due changes foreign exchange rates. See \x93Item Part \x97Financial Statements\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) Included gain $ million relating the settlement contractual dispute, and included and $ million and $ million losses from equity-method investees. equity-method losses income were recorded . Income Taxes record tax provision benefit for current and deferred . federal, state, and foreign income taxes for all periods presented, classified \x93Provision (benefit) for income taxes\x94 the consolidated statements operations. periodically evaluate the likelihood the realization deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount these deferred tax assets valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience taxing jurisdiction, expectations future taxable income, the carryforward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Significant judgment required making this assessment, and very difficult predict when, ever, our assessment may conclude that the remaining portion our deferred tax assets are realizable. had net current tax benefit $ million, representing $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share, resulting primarily from the effect changes our valuation assessment deferred tax assets during . connection with this assessment also recorded net credit \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit\x94 $ million our consolidated balance sheet . December , , our net deferred tax assets are $ million, comprised approximately $ million relating our NOLs, with the remaining portion related temporary timing differences between tax and financial reporting. Classification deferred tax assets between current and long-term categories based the expected timing realization, and the valuation allowance allocated ratably. December , , our gross deferred tax assets related our NOLs were approximately $ million (relating approximately $ billion NOLs), offset valuation allowance approximately $ million due uncertainty about their future realization. the future, determine that the remaining $ million NOL deferred tax assets more likely than not realizable, substantially all would credited \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit\x94 rather than the income statement since they primarily relate tax-deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. The majority our NOLs expire after . also have approximately $ million deferred tax assets relating approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards that expire and thereafter. Due uncertainty regarding future realization, have provided full valuation allowance for this portion our deferred tax asset. Additionally, expect net income for decline because expect tax provision rather than the large tax benefit received . expect our cash taxes paid approximately $ million, compared with $ million and $ million . Net Income Net income was $ million and $ million and , and net loss was $ million . believe that our reported net income for should not viewed, its own, material positive event, and the year-over-year increases net income $ million and $ million and are not necessarily predictive our future results for variety reasons. For example, had net benefit from income taxes $ million, representing $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share, resulting primarily from changes valuation deferred tax assets associated with our net operating loss carryforwards attributable continuing operations. Additionally, the remeasurement our % PEACS and intercompany balances resulted significant gains and charges associated with the effect movements currency exchange rates. Accordingly, encourage readers our financial statements evaluate the effect our operating trends these items since future income taxes and change currency exchange rates may create significant variability our future operating results. Effect Exchange Rates The effect our consolidated statements operations from changes exchange rates versus the . Dollar follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands, except per share amounts) Exchange-rate effect ( ): Net sales $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , Operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Net interest expense and other , , , Remeasurements and other ( ) , , , Net income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Represents the effect reported results due year-over-year changes exchange rates. Absent year-over-year changes exchange rates, reported amounts would have been lower (higher) these amounts. ( ) Includes foreign-currency gains (losses) remeasurement % PEACS and intercompany balances, and realized currency-related gains associated with sales Euro-denominated investments held . functional-currency subsidiary. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Remeasurements and Other.\x94 Non-GAAP Financial Measure: Free Cash Flow Regulation , Conditions for Use Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other provisions the Act define and prescribe the conditions for use certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measure \x93Free cash flow\x94 meets the definition non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow used addition and conjunction with results presented accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not relied upon the exclusion GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects additional way viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides more complete understanding factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages investors review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports their entirety and not rely any single financial measure. Free cash flow, which reconcile \x93Cash provided (used ) operating activities,\x94 cash flow from operations reduced \x93Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.\x94 use free cash flow, and ratios based , conduct and evaluate our business because, although similar cash flow from operations, believe more conservative measure cash flows since purchases fixed assets are necessary component ongoing operations. limited circumstances which proceeds from sales fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since not anticipate being net seller fixed assets, expect free cash flow less than operating cash flows. Free cash flow has limitations due the fact that does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made capital lease obligations cash payments for business acquisitions such our acquisition Joyo com (see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94). Therefore, believe important view free cash flow complement our entire consolidated statements cash flows. The following reconciliation free cash flow the most comparable GAAP measure, \x93Cash provided operating activities\x94 for , , and ( thousands): Year Ended December , Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ , $ , Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Free cash flow $ , $ , $ , Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , Guidance The Company provided guidance February , its earnings release furnished Form - follows: First Quarter Guidance \x95 Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and %, compared with first quarter . \x95 Operating income expected between $ million and $ million, decline between ( %) and %, compared with first quarter , assuming, among other things, that the Company adopts SFAS . 123R January , , stock-based compensation $ million, and there are further revisions restructuring-related estimates. Full Year Expectations \x95 Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and %. \x95 Operating income expected between $ million and $ million, between ( %) and % growth, compared with , assuming, among other things, that the Company adopts SFAS . 123R January , , stock-based compensation $ million, and there are further revisions restructuring-related estimates. These projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and \x93Liquidity and Capital Resources,\x94 above. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash \x93 \x94 rated higher, short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined fair value due changes interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , ( thousands, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds , , , , , \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , , , \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Treasury notes and bonds , , , , , \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , ( thousands, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Treasury notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , December , , had long-term debt $ billion primarily associated with our % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS, which are due and . The fair value our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. Based upon quoted market prices prevailing exchange rates, the fair value the % PEACS was million Euros ($ million) and million Euros ($ million) December , and December , , and the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes was $ million (outstanding principal $ million) and $ billion (outstanding principal $ billion) December , and . Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from our International segment (consisting www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com ) accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these websites, well those relating www amazon (which included our North America segment), are denominated the functional currencies the corresponding websites and include Euros, British Pounds, Yen, Canadian Dollars, and Chinese Yuan. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these websites the same the corresponding local currency. The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. For example, result fluctuations foreign exchange rates during , International segment revenues improved $ million and our operating results improved $ million comparison with the prior year. have foreign exchange risk related foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (\x93foreign funds\x94). Based the balance foreign funds December , $ million, assumed %, %, and % negative currency movement would result fair value declines $ million, $ million, and $ million. All investments are classified \x93available for sale,\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities . have foreign exchange risk related our % PEACS, which have outstanding principal balance December , million Euros ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ). Due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, which cannot predict, our principal debt obligation under the % PEACS since issuance February has increased $ million December , . Based the outstanding % PEACS\x92 principal balance, assumed %, %, and % weakening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result additional losses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, recorded \x93Remeasurements and other.\x94 Additionally, have not hedged our interest payments under our % PEACS protect against exchange rate fluctuations. Assuming the . Dollar weakens against the Euro %, %, and % , would incur $ million, $ million, and $ million additional annual interest expense due solely fluctuations foreign exchange. See \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 for additional information the effect reported results changes exchange rates. See also Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Subsequent Events (Unaudited).\x94 Investment Risk December , , our recorded basis equity securities (including both publicly-traded and private companies) was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities,\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other assets.\x94 regularly review the carrying value our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that declines the fair value such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. The fair values our investments are subject significant fluctuations due volatility the stock market general, company-specific circumstances, and changes general economic conditions. Based the fair value the publicly-traded equity securities held December , $ million (recorded basis $ million), assumed %, %, and % adverse change market prices these securities would result corresponding decline total fair value approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million. Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 deficit, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item ( )( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness Amazon com, Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington February , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( thousands) Year Ended December , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) , , ( , ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) net cash provided operating activities: Depreciation fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization , , , Stock-based compensation , , , Other operating expense (income) ( , ) , , Gains sales marketable securities, net ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Remeasurements and other , , Non-cash interest expense and other , , , Deferred income taxes ( , ) ( ) Cumulative effect change account principle \x97 \x97 ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable, net and other current assets ( , ) , ( , ) Accounts payable , , , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities ( , ) ( , ) , Additions unearned revenue , , , Amortization previously unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest payable , , Net cash provided operating activities , , , INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Sales and maturities marketable securities and other investments , , , , Purchases marketable securities ( , , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from sale subsidiary \x97 , \x97 Acquisition, net cash acquired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Net cash (used ) provided investing activities ( , ) , ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from exercises stock options , , , Repayments long-term debt, capital lease obligations ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash (used ) provided financing activities ( , ) ( , ) , Foreign-currency effect cash and cash equivalents , , , Net increase cash and cash equivalents , , , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , , $ , , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Fixed assets acquired under capital leases and other financing arrangements $ $ , $ , Cash paid for interest , , , Cash paid for income taxes , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( thousands, except per share data) Year Ended December , Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , , Gross profit , , , , , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , , , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , , Stock-based compensation ( ) , , , Other operating (income) expense ( , ) , , Total operating expenses , , , , Income from operations , , , Interest income , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other (expense) income, net ( , ) , , Remeasurements and other ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Total non-operating expense, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Income (loss) before income taxes , , ( , ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes ( , ) , ( ) Income (loss) before change accounting principle , , ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) $ , $ , $ ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 $ $ $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 $ $ $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , Diluted , , , ( ) Components stock-based compensation: Fulfillment $ , $ , $ , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , , $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( thousands, except per share data) December , Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , , Marketable securities , , Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities , , , , Inventories , , Current deferred tax assets , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets , , Total current assets , , , , Fixed assets, net , , Long-term deferred tax assets , , Goodwill , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , , $ , , \x92 Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , Unearned revenue , , Interest payable , , Current portion long-term debt and other , , Total current liabilities , , , , Long-term debt and other , , , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 deficit: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 , Issued and outstanding shares\x97none \x97 \x97 Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 , , Issued and outstanding shares\x97 , and , shares , , Additional paid- capital , , , , Deferred stock-based compensation ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income , , Accumulated deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total stockholders\x92 deficit ( , ) ( , , ) Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 deficit $ , , $ , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\x92 DEFICIT ( thousands) Common Stock Additional Paid- Capital Deferred Stock-Based Compensation Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Accumulated Deficit Total Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) Shares Amount Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) $ ( , , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Increase net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net increase unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments ( ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 \x97 ( , ) Income tax benefit excess stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) , ( , , ) ( , , ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Increase net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net increase unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net and vesting restricted stock , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Notes converted \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Income tax benefit excess stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Issuance common stock \x96 employee benefit plan \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) , ( , , ) ( , , ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Decline unrealized gains available-for-sale securities, net tax effect \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Amortization unrealized loss terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net and vesting restricted stock , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Income tax benefit excess stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Issuance common stock \x96 employee benefit plan , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , , ) $ ( , ) See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97DESCRIPTION BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July . seek Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want buy online, and endeavor offer customers the lowest possible prices. and third-party sellers offer millions new, used, refurbished, and collectible items, dozens product categories. Amazon com and its affiliates operate seven retail websites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com . have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. The North America segment includes the operating results www amazon com and www amazon . The International segment includes the operating results www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com . addition, operate www com and www alexa com that enable search and navigation, and www imdb com , comprehensive movie database. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities (relating www joyo com ) which have variable interest. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated . Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , inventory valuation, depreciable lives, sales returns, receivables valuation, restructuring-related liabilities, incentive discount offers, valuation investments, acquired intangibles, taxes, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Business Acquisition September , acquired all the outstanding shares Joyo com Limited (\x93Joyo com\x94), British Virgin Islands company that operates Internet retail website the People\x92 Republic China (\x93PRC\x94) cooperation with PRC subsidiary and PRC affiliates, purchase price $ million, including cash payment $ million (net cash acquired), the assumption employee stock options, and transaction-related costs. Acquired intangibles were $ million with estimated useful lives between one and four years. The excess purchase price over the fair value the net assets acquired was $ million and classified \x93Goodwill\x94 the consolidated balance sheets. The results operations Joyo com have been included our consolidated results from the acquisition date forward. The effect consolidated net sales and operating income was not significant for . Joyo com does not own any capital stock the PRC affiliates, but the primary beneficiary future losses profits through contractual rights. result, consolidate the results the PRC affiliates accordance with FIN 46R, \x93Consolidation Variable Interest Entities.\x94 The net assets and operating results for the PRC affiliates were not significant. The intrinsic value the unvested employee stock options that were assumed connection with the Joyo com acquisition recorded \x93Deferred stock-based compensation\x94 the consolidated balance sheets and AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) will expensed over the remaining service period. Amortization these amounts classified \x93Stock-based compensation\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Cash and Cash Equivalents classify all highly liquid instruments with remaining maturity three months less the time purchase cash equivalents. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts estimate losses receivables based known troubled accounts, any, and historical experience losses incurred. Accounting Change Effective January , , prospectively changed our inventory costing method from the specific identification method the first- -first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method accounting. This change resulted cumulative increase inventory $ million, with corresponding amount recorded \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 the consolidated statements operations. received letter preferability for this change inventory costing from our independent auditors. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. provide fulfillment-related services connection with certain our Merchants@ and Merchant com programs. those arrangements, well all other product sales third parties, the third party maintains ownership the related products. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Current Assets Included \x93Accounts receivable, net and other current assets\x94 are prepaid expenses $ million and $ million December , and , representing advance payments for insurance, licenses, and other miscellaneous expenses. Asset Retirement Obligations accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, establish assets and liabilities for the present value estimated future costs return certain our leased facilities their original condition. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted the future value the estimated restoration costs. Such amounts are not significant. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets, including assets purchased under capital leases, are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two ten years). Depreciation expense classified within the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. Included fixed assets the capitalized cost internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business. accordance with SOP - , \x93Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use,\x94 capitalize costs incurred during the application development stage related the development internal-use software and amortize these costs over the estimated useful life two years. Costs incurred related design maintenance internal-use software are expensed incurred. Leases account for our lease agreements pursuant SFAS , \x93 Accounting for Leases ,\x94 which categorizes leases their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. certain our lease agreements, may receive rent holidays and other incentives. recognize lease costs straight-line basis without regard deferred payment terms, such rent holidays that defer the commencement date required payments. Additionally, incentives receive are treated reduction our costs over the term the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized cost and amortized over the lesser their expected useful life and the life the lease, without assuming renewal features, any, are exercised. Goodwill evaluate goodwill, minimum, annual basis and whenever events and changes circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not recoverable. Impairment goodwill tested the reporting unit level comparing the reporting unit\x92 carrying amount, including goodwill, the fair value the reporting unit. The fair values the reporting units are estimated using discounted projected cash flows. the carrying amount the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill considered impaired and second step performed measure the amount impairment loss, any. conduct our annual impairment test October each year, and have determined there impairment . There were events circumstances from the date our assessment through December , that would impact this assessment. Additionally, during , acquired $ million goodwill related our acquisition Joyo com. Other Assets Included \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related deferred issuance charges our long-term debt, which are amortized over the life the debt; certain equity investments; and intangible assets, net amortization. December , , and , deferred issuance charges were $ million, and $ million; equity investments were $ million and $ million; and intangibles, net amortization, were $ million, and $ million. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Other intangibles, included within \x93Other assets,\x94 consist the following: December , Other Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Other Intangibles, Net ( ) Other Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Other Intangibles, Net ( thousands) Marketing-related $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ Contract-based , ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 Technology-based ( ) , ( , ) Customer-related \x97 \x97 \x97 , ( , ) Other intangibles $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization fully-amortized intangibles. ( ) The net carrying amount intangible assets December , scheduled fully amortized over the next four years follows: $ million ; $ million ; $ million ; and $ million . The weighted-average amortization period years based useful life assumptions between one and four years. The increase net other intangibles primarily relates the acquisition Joyo com. Investments The initial carrying cost our investments the price paid. Investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. classify our investments equity-method investees the consolidated balance sheets \x93Other assets\x94 and our share the investees\x92 earnings losses \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Losses from equity-method investees were not significant for , , and . not hold over % interest any our investees December , . All other equity investments, which consist investments for which not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method accounting, investments private companies are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, distributions earnings, and additional investments. For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, classify our equity investments available-for-sale and, accordingly, record these investments their fair values with unrealized gains and losses, net tax, included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component Stockholders\x92 Deficit. generally invest our excess cash \x93 \x94 rated higher short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Such investments are included \x93Cash and cash equivalents,\x94 \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 The weighted average method used determine the cost Euro-denominated securities sold and the specific identification method used determine the cost all other securities. periodically evaluate whether declines fair values our investments are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists review qualitative and quantitative factors, including quoted market prices, available; recent financial results and operating trends; other publicly available information; implied values from AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) any recent financing rounds; other conditions that bear the value our investments. December , , gross unrealized losses our marketable securities were $ million and were determined temporary based our assessment the qualitative and quantitative factors discussed above. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets not recoverable. For long-lived assets used operations, impairment losses are only recorded the asset\x92 carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted cash flows. measure the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including: management has committed plan sell the asset, the asset available for sale its immediate condition, and the sale probable within one year the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Assets held for sale were not significant December , . Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments are received advance performing our service obligations and amortized ratably over the service period. example unearned revenue cash received from third parties under certain Merchants@ agreements for which provide the services over time. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. See Note \x97\x93Income Taxes.\x94 SFAS , \x93 Accounting for Income Taxes,\x94 requires deferred tax assets evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets including our recent cumulative earnings experience taxing jurisdiction, expectations future taxable income, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Significant judgment required making this assessment, and very difficult predict when, ever, our assessment may conclude that the remaining portion our deferred tax assets are realizable. Classification deferred tax assets between current and long-term categories based the expected timing realization, and the valuation allowance allocated pro-rata basis. Revenue recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are primarily obligated transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Under our syndicated stores arrangements, record gross product sales and costs since own the inventory, set prices, and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service, and the other business earns sales commission. Product sales and shipping revenues, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail sales customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier, which commonly referred \x93 . Shipping Point.\x94 Return allowances, which reduce product revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Amounts paid advance for subscription services, including amounts received for online DVD rentals and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized revenue straight-line basis over the subscription term. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and similar amounts earned through our Merchant com program are recognized when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. Outbound shipping charges customers are included \x93Net sales\x94 and, excluding amounts earned from third-party sellers where don\x92 provide fulfillment services, amounted $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products sold , inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies, and costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers behalf other businesses, such Toysrus com, Inc. and Target Corporation. Credit card fees and bad debt costs, including those associated with our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions, are classified \x93Fulfillment\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Outbound shipping-related costs totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended December , , , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Vendor Agreements have agreements receive cash consideration from certain our vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. generally presume amounts received from our vendors are reduction the prices pay for their products and, therefore, reflect such amounts either reduction \x93Cost sales\x94 our consolidated statements operations, , the product inventory still hand the reporting date, reflected reduction \x93Inventories\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. evaluate the likelihood reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When rebates can reasonably estimated, record portion the rebate make progress towards the purchase threshold. When receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred advertising the vendor\x92 product service, the amount receive recorded offset \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third-parties that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain our fulfillment-related costs that are incurred behalf other businesses, such Toysrus com, Inc. and Target Corporation, are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily online advertising, including through our Associates and Syndicated Stores programs, sponsored search, portal advertising, -mail campaigns, and other initiatives. pay commissions participants our Associates program when their customer referrals result product sales and classify such costs \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors, and other third parties. the extent -operative marketing reimbursements decline future periods, may incur additional expenses continue certain promotions elect reduce discontinue them. Marketing expenses also consist public relations expenditures; payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, business development, and selling activities; and lesser extent, traditional advertising such newspaper inserts. Advertising and other promotional costs, which consist primarily online advertising, are expensed incurred, and were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant December , and . Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for employees involved development our websites, including application development, editorial content, merchandising selection, AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) systems and telecommunications support, costs associated with the systems and telecommunications infrastructure, and costs acquired content. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business, which are capitalized and depreciated over two years. During , , and capitalized $ million, $ million, and $ million costs associated with development internal-use software, which offset amortization previously capitalized amounts $ million, $ million, and $ million. Fixed assets associated with capitalized internal-use software, content, and website development, net accumulated depreciation, were $ million and $ million December , and . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for employees involved general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human relations, among others; costs associated with use these functions facilities and equipment, such depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based Compensation October , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board reached consensus the effective date for SFAS . 123R, Share-Based Payment . SFAS 123R requires measure compensation cost for all outstanding unvested share-based awards fair value beginning July , , however will early-adopt the provisions SFAS 123R with implementation date January , . The adoption this standard will not affect the stock-based compensation associated with our restricted stock units which are already recorded fair value the date grant and recognized over the service period, and will result the recognition stock-based compensation future periods for remaining unvested stock options the effective date. the implementation date this standard, will longer have employee stock awards subject variable accounting treatment. estimate that stock-based compensation will approximately $ million for . generally have three categories stock-based awards: restricted stock units, restricted stock, and stock options. Through December , , accounted for stock-based awards under the intrinsic value method, which follows the recognition and measurement principles APB Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method accounting results compensation expense the extent option exercise prices are set below market prices the date grant. Also, the extent stock awards were granted subsequent December , , were subject exchange offer, other modifications, performance criteria, such awards were subject variable accounting treatment. have ( ) savings plan covering substantially all our . employees, and eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. Beginning April , began matching portion employee contributions using our common stock. Stock-based compensation includes matching contributions under our ( ) program . record the employer portion payroll tax expense, cash tax, resulting from exercises stock options and vesting restricted stock \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 and \x93General and administrative\x94 our consolidated statements operations and not include such expenses \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Stock-based compensation consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Stock awards\x97variable accounting ( ) $ , $ , $ , Fixed accounting ( ): Restricted stock units ( ) , , , Restricted stock ( ) , , , Total stock-based compensation $ , $ , $ , ( ) Variable accounting treatment results expense contra-expense recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated based the quoted price our common stock and vesting schedules underlying awards. the extent stock options are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 ( ) The fair value awards determined grant date based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense over the service period using the accelerated method under FIN . , Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option Award Plans . the extent awards are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset stock-based compensation. ( ) Since October , have awarded restricted stock units our primary form stock-based compensation. ( ) Includes expense associated with matching contributions million and million shares our common stock under our ( ) savings plan during and . matching contributions were made . Outstanding stock awards were follows: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Stock options ( )( ) , , , Restricted stock units ( ) , , , Outstanding stock awards, excluded from common stock outstanding , , , Restricted stock ( ) , Total outstanding stock awards , , , ( ) The weighted average per share exercise price was $ , $ , and $ , , and . ( ) Includes million, million, and million options , , and subject variable accounting treatment. ( ) Includes million restricted stock units subject variable accounting treatment , , and . ( ) Included issued and outstanding common stock. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The following table summarizes relevant information the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure, had been applied all stock-based awards ( thousands, except per share data): Year Ended December , Net income (loss)\x97 reported $ , $ , $ ( , ) Add: Stock-based compensation, reported , , , Deduct: Total stock-based compensation determined under fair value based method for all awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net income (loss)\x97SFAS . adjusted $ , $ , $ ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share\x97 reported $ $ $ ( ) Basic earnings (loss) per share\x97SFAS . adjusted ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share\x97 reported ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share\x97SFAS . adjusted ( ) The fair value for each stock option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model, assuming dividends and the following assumptions: Year Ended December , Average risk-free interest rate % % % Average expected life ( years) Volatility % % % Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs, and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. Additionally, may determine that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which have been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, may necessary for our future needs. the extent elect utilize this office space will adjust our restructuring-related liability and classify future payments the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97Other Operating Expense (Income).\x94 Foreign Currency have the following internationally-focused websites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com. Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, well most the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated the functional currencies the resident countries. Additionally, the functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, and China. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 deficit and the \x93Effect exchange-rate changes cash and cash equivalents,\x94 the consolidated statements cash flows. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved are included \x93Other income (expense), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97Other Income (Expense), Net.\x94 provision SFAS . , Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, where settlement not planned anticipated the foreseeable future, excluded the determination net income. Our international operations are financed, part, the . parent company. periods ending prior the fourth quarter , currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were recorded stockholders\x92 deficit translation adjustments and not included the determination net income because intended permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter , made the decision that these amounts would repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation, any exchange gain loss arising from remeasurements intercompany balances required recorded the determination net income. accordance with SFAS . , currency adjustments arising before the fourth quarter continue included component \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. connection with the remeasurement intercompany balances, recorded gains $ million and $ million and . During , $ million was repaid among the entities. Derivative Financial Instruments During the second quarter , terminated our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS principal and interest. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 hold warrants purchase equity securities other companies that are derivative financial instruments, classified \x93Other assets\x94 the consolidated balance sheets. not designate our warrants hedging instruments; accordingly, gains losses resulting from changes fair value are recognized the consolidated statements operations, \x93Remeasurements and other,\x94 the period change. determine the fair value our warrants through option-pricing models using current market price and volatility assumptions, including public-company market comparables for our private-company warrants. Earnings (Loss) per Share accordance with SFAS . , Earnings per Share , the weighted-average number shares used calculate basic earnings (loss) per share excludes shares restricted stock since they are subject repurchase forfeiture. For periods when have net income, the dilutive effect outstanding stock awards, including restricted stock, included the calculation diluted earnings per share using the treasury stock method for assumed proceeds, any. For periods when have net loss, the effect outstanding stock awards, including restricted stock, antidilutive and therefore excluded from the calculation diluted loss per share. Stock issuable upon conversion our convertible debt instruments excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share its effect antidilutive. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The following table shows the calculation diluted shares ( thousands): Year Ended December , Weighted average shares outstanding , , , Weighted average shares restricted stock ( ) ( ) ( , ) Shares used computation basic earnings (loss) per share , , , Total dilutive effect outstanding stock awards ( ) , , \x97 Shares used computation diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , ( ) The effect outstanding stock awards, including restricted stock, antidilutive for periods that have net loss and, accordingly, excluded from the calculation diluted loss per share those periods. The dilutive effect stock awards and restricted stock included the calculation weighted average shares, using the treasury stock method, for periods that have net income. Recent Accounting Pronouncements will implementing the provisions SFAS 123R, \x93Share-Based Payment,\x94 January , . See \x93Stock-based compensation\x94 this Note for additional discussion, including the anticipated effect our financial results adopting this standard. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Note \x97CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize, major security type, our cash and marketable securities ( thousands): December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses ( ) Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Cash equivalents pledged collateral (See Note ) , \x97 \x97 , Commercial paper and other cash equivalents , , \x97 , Total cash and cash equivalents , , , \x97 , , Asset-backed and agency securities , , ( ) , . Treasury notes and bonds , ( , ) , Corporate notes and bonds , \x97 ( ) , Equity securities and other , \x97 , Marketable securities , , ( , ) , Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) $ , , $ , $ ( , ) $ , , ( ) The fair value investments with loss positions was $ million. evaluated the nature these investments, which are primarily . Treasury Notes, the duration the impairments (substantially all less than twelve months), and concluded that such amounts were not \x93other-than-temporary\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ million, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses ( ) Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and other cash equivalents , , \x97 , Total cash and cash equivalents , , , \x97 , , . Treasury notes and bonds , ( ) , Asset-backed and agency securities , ( ) , Certificates deposit , , \x97 , Corporate notes and bonds , \x97 , Equity securities and other , , \x97 , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) $ , , $ , $ ( ) $ , , ( ) The fair value investments with loss positions was $ million. evaluated the nature these investments, which are primarily . Treasury Notes, the duration the impairments (all less than twelve months), and the amount the impairments relative the underlying portfolio and concluded that such amounts were not \x93other-than-temporary\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities . ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ million, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. The following table summarizes contractual maturities our cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( thousands): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through three years , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities , , $ , , $ , , Gross gains $ million, $ million, and $ million and gross losses $ million, $ million and $ million were realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities for , , and . are required pledge portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. See \x93Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consist the following ( thousands): December , Gross Fixed Assets ( ): Fulfillment and customer service ( ) $ , $ , Technology infrastructure , , Internal-use software, content, and website development , , Other corporate assets , , Gross fixed assets , , Accumulated Depreciation ( ): Fulfillment and customer service , , Technology infrastructure , , Internal-use software, content, and website development , , Other corporate assets , , Total accumulated depreciation , , Total fixed assets, net $ , $ , ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation fully-depreciated assets which were $ million and $ million December , and . ( ) Includes our online rental DVD catalog. Depreciation expense fixed assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million, which includes amortization fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations $ million, $ million and $ million for , , and . Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $ million and $ million December , and . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $ million and $ million December , and . Note \x97LONG-TERM DEBT AND OTHER Our long-term debt and other long-term liabilities are summarized follows ( thousands): December , ( thousands) % Convertible Subordinated Notes due February $ , $ , , % PEACS due February , , Long-term restructuring liabilities (see Note ) , , Capital lease obligations , , Other long-term debt , , , , , , Less current portion capital lease obligations ( , ) ( , ) Less current portion other long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) Total long-term debt and other $ , , $ , , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) % PEACS February , completed offering million Euros % PEACS due . The % PEACS are convertible, the holder\x92 option, into our common stock conversion price Euros per share. The . Dollar equivalent principal, interest, and conversion price fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. Interest the % PEACS payable annually arrears February each year. The % PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future senior indebtedness. The % PEACS rank equally with our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. have the right redeem the % PEACS, whole part, paying the principal, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. premium payment required for early redemption. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % PEACS, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % PEACS price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % PEACS contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants through December , . During the second quarter , terminated our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS\x92 principal and interest. Although neither party made cash payments terminate the agreement, recorded non-cash loss $ million \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 representing the remaining basis our swap asset. December , , the remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with our Euro Currency Swap, recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income,\x94 was $ million, net tax effects. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , this accumulated loss will amortized \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 over the life the % PEACS. net gains losses resulting from hedge ineffectiveness were recognized our results operations during the year ended December , . redeem otherwise restructure our % PEACS prior maturity , any remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with the Euro Currency Swap will recorded charge \x93Remeasurements and other.\x94 Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million December , and . % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due February . The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into our common stock the holders\x92 option conversion price $ per share. Interest the % Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future senior indebtedness defined the indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes rank equally with our outstanding % PEACS. have the right redeem the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, whole part, paying the principal plus redemption premium, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. December , , the redemption premium was % the principal, and decreased % February , and will decrease additional basis points annually until maturity. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants through December , . and , redeemed aggregate principal amounts $ million and $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. provided the underlying indenture, the redemption prices $ million and $ million represented $ million ( %) and $ million ( %) premiums over the face amount the redeemed notes. recorded charges and , classified \x93Remeasurements and other,\x94 $ million and $ million related these redemptions, consisting premiums $ million and $ million and unamortized deferred issuance costs $ million and $ million. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value our % Convertible Subordinated Notes December , and was $ million (principal balance $ million) and $ billion (principal balance $ billion). Note \x97COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments lease office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for inventory purchases that support normal operations, December , : Thereafter Total ( thousands) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and other ( ) $ $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ , , Debt interest ( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases ( ) , , , , , , , Total operating and capital commitments , , , , , , , , , , Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income , , , , , , , Other , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Total restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , $ , , ( ) The principal payment due and the annual interest payments due under our % PEACS fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, which December , was . December , , our principal debt obligation for the % PEACS has increased $ million since its issuance February due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events (Unaudited).\x94 ( ) Pursuant SFAS . , \x93 Accounting for Leases , \x94 lease agreements are categorized their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for , pursuant SFAS . they are not reflected the balance sheet. December , , have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real estate $ million. had applied our operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not accordance with GAAP, would have recorded approximately $ million additional assets and obligations our balance sheet December , . See \x93Note \x97Other Operating Expense (Income)\x94 for additional information about our restructuring-related lease obligations. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Pledged Securities are required pledge portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. The amount required pledged for real estate lease agreements changes over the life our leases; with fluctuations our market capitalization, which common shares outstanding multiplied the closing price our common stock; and based our credit-rating. The change the total amount collateral required pledged under these agreements follows: Standby Letters Credit ( ) Line Credit ( ) Real Estate Leases ( ) Total ( thousands) Balance December , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) Balance December , ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Pursuant available standby letter- -credit facilities totaling $ million. ( ) Pursuant available line credit totaling $ million. ( ) The required amount collateral pledged certain our real estate leases fluctuates based our market capitalization. December , , our market capitalization was $ billion. our market capitalization decreases, the required amount collateral pledged will increase $ million ( market capitalization less than $ billion but more than $ billion) $ million ( our market capitalization less than $ billion). ( ) Includes $ million cash equivalents pledged collateral. See \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 Legal Proceedings number purported class action complaints were filed holders our equity and debt securities against , our directors, and certain our senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Act and the Act (the \x93Securities Class Actions\x94). August , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed second consolidated amended complaint alleging that , together with certain our officers and directors, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through October , concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects, and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and have been vigorously defending ourselves these matters. See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events (Unaudited).\x94 October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys\x92 fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint, and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Beginning March , were served with complaints filed several different states, including Illinois and Nevada, private litigant purportedly behalf the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that (along with other companies with which have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales personal property customers those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating were not required collect remit such taxes. The complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys\x92 fees, civil penalties $ , per violation, and treble punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. possible that have been will named similar cases other states well. not believe that are liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure collect sales other taxes relating Internet sales and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. July , , Pinpoint, Inc. filed complaint for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Northern District Illinois against and several other companies with which have commercial agreements. The complaint was dismissed without prejudice December . The complaint alleges that our personalization technology infringes patents obtained Pinpoint and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events (Unaudited).\x94 January , , Soverain Software LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes several patents obtained Soverain purporting cover \x93Internet Server Access Control and Monitoring Systems\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Network Sales Systems\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. October , , Soverain filed amended complaint alleging that infringe two additional patents purporting cover \x93Digital Active Advertising\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Open Network Payment System for Providing Real-Time Authorization Payment and Purchase Transactions\x94 ( . Patent . , , ). The patents asserted the amended complaint have since been severed from those asserted the original complaint, and accordingly separate complaint has been filed for those patents. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. January , , IPXL Holdings, LLC brought action against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Virginia. The complaint alleges that aspects our online ordering technology, including -Click ® ordering, infringe patent obtained IPXL purporting cover \x93Electronic Fund Transfer Transaction System\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. August , , the Court entered judgment Amazon com\x92 favor the grounds that the patent claims asserted the plaintiff were invalid and that Amazon com\x92 technology did not infringe those claims any event. The Court also awarded Amazon com its attorneys\x92 fees and costs. Plaintiff appealing that judgment. April , learned that the French authorities are investigating our DVD sales practices France, and are cooperating. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) May , , Toysrus com LLC filed complaint against for breach contract the Superior Court New Jersey. The complaint alleges that breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus com LLC selling, and permitting other third parties sell, products that Toysrus com LLC alleges has exclusive right sell our website. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, declaratory judgment and either monetary damages unspecified amount rescission the commercial agreement and return specific amounts paid under the agreement totaling $ million. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and have brought counterclaims alleging breach contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. September , , BTG International Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our Associates program, infringes two patents obtained BTG purporting cover methods and apparatuses for \x93Attaching Navigational History Information Universal Resource Locator Links World Wide Web Page\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and for \x93Tracking the Navigation Path User the World Wide Web\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. October , Cendant Publishing, Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our recommendations features, infringes patent obtained Cendant purporting cover \x93System and Method for Providing Recommendation Goods Services Based Recorded Purchasing History\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events (Unaudited).\x94 Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, results operations, financial position, cash flows particular period. Inventory Suppliers During , vendor accounted for % more our inventory purchases. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. Note \x97STOCKHOLDERS\x92 DEFICIT Preferred Stock have authorized million shares $ par value Preferred Stock. preferred stock shares were outstanding during , , . Stock Award Plans Employees vest restricted stock unit awards and stock options ratably over the corresponding service term, generally three six years. Outstanding stock options generally have term years from the date grant. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Stock Award Activity granted stock awards, which since October have consisted primarily restricted stock units, representing million, million, and million shares common stock during , , and with per share weighted average fair value $ , $ , and $ . Common shares outstanding (which includes restricted stock), plus shares underlying outstanding stock options and restricted stock units totaled million, million, and million December , , and . Common shares outstanding increased million shares and million shares during and , due exercises stock options, vesting restricted stock units, and matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan. The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity ( thousands): Outstanding December , \x97 Units granted , Units vested \x97 Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , , Units granted , Units vested ( ) Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , , Units granted , Units vested ( ) Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , , Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units December , follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Scheduled annual vesting\x97restricted stock units , , , , , The following table summarizes our stock option activity: Number Shares ( thousands) Weighted Average Exercise Price Balance December , , $ Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Additionally, granted million shares and terminated million shares restricted stock . shares restricted stock were granted terminated . matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan, granted million and million shares common stock and . matching contributions were made . Shares granted matching contributions under our ( ) plan and shares restricted stock are included outstanding common stock when issued. The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding December , : Stock Awards Outstanding Awards Vested Range Exercise Prices Number Awards ( thousands) Remaining Life (yrs) Weighted Average Exercise Price Number Awards ( thousands) Weighted Average Exercise Price \x96 , $ , $ \x96 , , \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 , , Common Stock Available for Future Issuance December , , common stock available for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock awards , Shares issuable upon conversion % Convertible Subordinated Notes , Shares issuable upon conversion % PEACS , Total common stock reserved for future issuance , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The changes the components other comprehensive income (loss) were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , ( thousands) Net income (loss) $ , $ , $ ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains ( ) , , Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the year , , , Less reclassification net realized (gains) losses included net income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities: ( , ) , , Net activity terminated Euro Currency Swap: Remeasurement Euro Currency Swap fair value \x97 , , Reclassification (gains) losses offset currency losses and gains hedged portion % PEACS included net income (loss) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Amortization net unrealized losses terminated euro Currency Swap , , \x97 Net activity terminated Euro Currency Swap , , , Tax effect other comprehensive income, net ( , ) \x97 \x97 Other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) , , Comprehensive income (loss) $ , $ , $ ( , ) Tax effect other comprehensive income relates the following components ( thousands): Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities Unrealized gains arising during the year $ , Reclassification net realized gains included net income ( , ) ( , ) Amortization net unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap , Net tax effect other comprehensive income $ ( , ) Accumulated balances within other comprehensive income were follows ( thousands): December , ( thousands) Net unrealized gains foreign currency translation $ , $ , Net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities, net tax , , Net unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax ( , ) ( , ) Total accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97OTHER OPERATING EXPENSE (INCOME) Other operating expense (income) was $( ) million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , which includes restructuring-related expenses (credits) and amortization other intangibles. Restructuring-related expenses (credits) were $( ) million, $ million, and $ million; and amortization other intangibles was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . During , determined that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which had been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, was necessary for our future needs. reduced our restructuring-related liability resulting gain $ million for . Lease payments for this office space are expensed over the lease period and classified the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. , streamlined our organizational structure France reduce our operating costs. These efforts were primarily focused eliminating French-office positions managerial, professional, clerical, and technical roles. The number employees affected totaled and resulted severance costs $ million classified \x93Other operating expense (income)\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Restructuring-related charges were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , ( thousands) Asset impairments $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Continuing lease obligations ( , ) , Termination benefits , \x97 \x97 Broker commissions, professional fees, and other miscellaneous restructuring costs ( ) \x97 Total restructuring-related charges $ ( , ) $ $ , December , , the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related and other charges was $ million and consisted the following: Balance December , Subsequent Accruals (Credits), net Payments Balance December , Due Within Months( ) Due After Months( ) ( thousands) Lease obligations, net estimated sublease income $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , Termination benefits \x97 , ( , ) , , \x97 Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , ( ) ( ) \x97 Total restructuring-related liability $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Restructuring-related liabilities due within months are classified \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 and liabilities due after months are classified \x93Long-term debt and other\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows: Thereafter Total ( thousands) Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Estimated net lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Note \x97OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other income (expense), net consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Gains sales marketable securities, net $ $ , $ , Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( ) ( ) Total other income (expense), net $ ( , ) $ , $ , Foreign-currency transaction losses primarily relate the interest payable our % PEACS. Since these payments are settled Euros, the balance interest payable (which paid annually February) subject gains losses resulting from changes exchange rates between the . Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and payment. Note \x97REMEASUREMENTS AND OTHER Remeasurements and other consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( thousands) Foreign-currency losses remeasurement % PEACS ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Gain sales Euro-denominated investments, net , , , Gain sales equity investments, net , , Loss redemption long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) \x97 Loss termination Euro Currency Swap ( ) \x97 ( , ) \x97 Foreign-currency effect intercompany balances ( ) , , \x97 Other-than-temporary impairments and other ( ) , ( , ) ( , ) Total remeasurements and other $ ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Each period the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars results gains losses recorded \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. ( ) Represents the remaining basis our swap asset upon date termination. ( ) Represents the gains associated with the remeasurement intercompany balances due changes foreign exchange rates. See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) Included gain $ million relating the settlement contractual dispute, and included and $ million and $ million losses from equity-method investees. equity-method losses income were reported . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97INCOME TAXES Cash taxes paid were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . The components the provision for income taxes, net are follows: December , Current taxes: . and state $ , $ $ International , , ( ) Current taxes , , ( ) Deferred taxes ( , ) ( ) Provision for income taxes, net $ ( , ) $ , $ ( ) . and international components income (loss) before income taxes are follows: December , . $ , $ , $ ( , ) International ( , ) ( , ) , Income (loss) before income taxes $ , $ , $ ( , ) Total income tax expense/(benefit) and amounts allocated stockholders\x92 deficit were follows: Income from continuing operations $ ( , ) $ , $ ( ) Stockholders\x92 deficit ( , ) ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , $ ( ) The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision (benefit) recorded for income taxes are follows: December , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Decrease beginning- -year balance the valuation allowance ( )% ( )% ( )% Net operating losses foreign subsidiaries not benefited % % ( )% Permanent differences, state income taxes, and other ( )% % % Total ( )% % % AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The significant components deferred income tax expense/(benefit) attributable income from continuing operations for the year ended December , are follows: For the year ended December , Deferred tax expense/(benefit) exclusive the effect the items listed below $ , $ , $ , Decrease beginning- -year balance the valuation allowance ( , ) \x97 \x97 Tax benefit net operating loss carryforwards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total deferred tax expense/(benefit) $ ( , ) $ $ ( ) Deferred income taxes were: December , Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses $ , $ , Assets held for investment , , Revenue items , , Expense items, including stock-based compensation , , Tax credits , \x97 Total gross deferred tax assets , , , , Less valuation allowance ( , ) ( , , ) Net deferred tax assets , , Deferred tax liabilities: Expense items ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred tax $ , $ , Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. periodically evaluate the likelihood the realization deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount these deferred tax assets valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience taxing jurisdiction, expectations future taxable income, the carryforward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Significant judgment required making this assessment, and very difficult predict when, ever, our assessment may conclude that the remaining portion our deferred tax assets are realizable. had net tax benefit $ million, representing $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share, resulting primarily from the effect changes our valuation assessment deferred tax assets during . connection with this assessment also recorded net credit \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit\x94 $ million our consolidated balance sheet for . December , , our gross deferred tax assets related our NOLs were approximately $ million (relating approximately $ billion NOLs), offset valuation allowance approximately $ million AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) due uncertainty about their future realization. the future determine that the remaining $ million NOL deferred tax assets more likely than not realizable, substantially all would credited \x93Stockholders\x92 Deficit\x94 rather than the income statement since they primarily relate tax-deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. The majority our NOLs expire after . addition, utilization NOLs may subject certain limitations under Sections and the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. also have approximately $ million deferred tax assets relating approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards that expire and thereafter. Due uncertainty regarding future realization, have provided full valuation allowance for this portion our deferred tax asset. have not provided for . deferred income taxes foreign withholding taxes non- . subsidiaries\x92 undistributed earnings totaling $ million December , because these earnings are intended permanently reinvested operations outside the United States. Note \x97SEGMENT INFORMATION have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our chief operating decision maker reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. Direct segment operating expenses include the operating expenses \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 and \x93General and administrative,\x94 but not \x93Stock-based compensation\x94 \x93Other operating income (expense).\x94 significant majority our costs for \x93Technology and content\x94 are incurred the United States and most these costs are allocated our North America segment. There are internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from third-party sellers) through www amazon com and www amazon , from North America focused Syndicated Stores and mail-order catalogs, and from non-retail activities such North America focused Merchant com, marketing, and promotional agreements. International The International segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from third-party sellers) through internationally-focused websites, such www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com , from internationally-focused Syndicated Stores and from non-retail activities such internationally-focused marketing and promotional agreements. This segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income (loss) follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , , Gross profit , , , , , Direct segment operating expenses , , , , Segment operating income , , , Stock-based compensation , Other operating income ( , ) Income from operations , Total non-operating expense, net , Benefit from income taxes, net ( , ) Net income $ , Year Ended December , : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , , Gross profit , , , , Direct segment operating expenses , , , Segment operating income , , , Stock-based compensation , Other operating expenses , Income from operations , Total non-operating expense, net , Provision for income taxes, net , Net income $ , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Year Ended December , : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , Gross profit , , , Direct segment operating expenses , , , Segment operating income , , Stock-based compensation , Other operating income , Income from operations , Total non-operating expense, net , Provision for income taxes, net ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) Net loss $ ( , ) Net sales shipped customers outside the . represented approximately %, %, and % net sales for , , and . Net sales from www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon each represented % more consolidated net sales , and net sales from www amazon and www amazon each represented % more consolidated net sales and . Net fixed assets held locations outside the . were $ million, $ million, and $ million December , , , and . Total assets, segment, reconciled consolidated amounts were ( thousands): December , North America $ , , $ , , $ , , International , , , , Consolidated $ , , $ , , $ , , Depreciation expense, segment, was follows ( thousands): North America International Consolidated $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97FAIR VALUES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amount and estimated fair values our financial instruments were follows ( thousands): December , Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying Amount Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Marketable securities ( ) , , , , Other equity investments ( ) , , , , Long-term debt ( ) , , , , , , , , ( ) The fair value marketable securities determined from publicly quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 ( ) The fair value other equity investments determined from publicly quoted prices, plus the carrying amount privately-held investments for which market values are not readily determinable. evaluate \x93Other equity investments\x94 for impairment accordance with our stated policy. See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) The fair value our long-term debt determined based quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Note \x97QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter , , and . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Unaudited quarterly results were follows ( thousands, except per share data): Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross profit , , , , Net income , , , , Basic earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross profit , , , , Net income (loss) , , ( , ) ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 $ Net income (loss) , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. Note \x97SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (UNAUDITED) March , , redeemed million Euros principal our % PEACS for cash payment $ million, which includes $ million interest from and including February through March , . Under the Indenture, premium was required. March , , the outstanding principal amount our % PEACS was million Euros ($ million using the Euro . Dollar exchange rate that date). Regarding litigation matters, March , signed Stipulation Settlement with counsel representing the alleged plaintiff class, with respect the Act claims the Securities Class Actions. approved the court, the settlement would dispose all claims arising under the Act, but not the Act, exchange for payment $ , , , most not all which expect funded our insurers. the Pinpoint litigation, the lawsuit was refiled March the . District Court for the Northern District Illinois after being dismissed without prejudice the same court December . the Cendant litigation, Cendant voluntarily withdrew its complaint without prejudice February . However, expect the plaintiff refile the claims unless they are otherwise settled disposed . See \x93Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies\x97Legal Proceedings.\x94 ', 'item 8. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9. ': ' hanges and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures carried out evaluation required the Act, under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act, December , . Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, December , , our disclosure controls and procedures were effective timely alerting them material information required included our periodic SEC reports. Management\x92 Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting December , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. result this assessment, management concluded that, December , , our internal control over financial reporting was effective providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young LLP has issued attestation report management\x92 assessment internal control over financial reporting, copy which included this annual report Form - . Limitations Controls Management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures our internal control over financial reporting will prevent detect all error and fraud. Any control system, matter how well designed and operated, based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will met. Further, evaluation controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due error fraud will not occur that all control issues and instances fraud, any, within the Company have been detected. Report Ernst & Young LLP Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited management\x92 assessment, included the accompanying Management\x92 Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Amazon com, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting, December , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Amazon com, Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility express opinion management\x92 assessment and opinion the effectiveness the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management\x92 assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, management\x92 assessment that Amazon com, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting December , , fairly stated, all material respects, based the COSO criteria. Also, our opinion, Amazon com, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 deficit, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , Amazon com, Inc. and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / RNST & OUNG LLP Seattle, Washington February , ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information None. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part \x93Business\x97Executive Officers and Directors.\x94 Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating our Code Business Conduct and Ethics and compliance with Section ( ) the Act set forth our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': ' ecurity Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Deficit for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule \x97Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) Index Exhibits Exhibit Number Description Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Diego Piacentini, dated January , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Kal Raman, dated July , . Exhibit Number Description \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). List Significant Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}